Prayer

Comes in two forms:
1) Petition.
2) Praise.

A prayer may contain both.

1) Petition:
This is asking God for something.
There is weak petition and strong petition.

Weak Petition:
Asks God to do something or help someone but if nothing happens maybe God has some other plan.
This is just plain foolish.
Can you imagine asking someone to do something and then saying it's all right if you don't.
Which is someone more likely to do, something where they have to do something or so something where they don't?
Wouldn't God just ignore these prayers and do what He wants anyway?
(Ref in James about God not answering prayers).

Strong Petition:
Asking God for something and either:
i) believing it will happen, has already happened or is in the process of happening.
	Ask yourself do you have the power to control the universe by your thinking?
	What if God decided to do something else?
	What if other people prayed opposedly who will God answer?
		Example: Some pray for no rain others pray for rain.
	Are you going to delude yourself when it doesn't happen or admit that you were wrong?
ii) threatening God with something bad if it doesn't happen.
	This is just dumb.
	Things you might threaten God with will be destructive and either directly or indirectly self harming.

Trusting Petition:
	This is really a form of weak petition.
	You ask God for something but what happens is His will.
	Your asking is really an expression of your feelings or your understanding of your situation.
	There is no real belief that things will be fixed for you, just that you are expressing faith that God loves you
		and that things will work out in the end.
	This is the stance of many believers but isn't it still foolish.
	What evidence do you have that God exists?
	What evidence do you have that God loves you?
	What if God existed and delighted in people's folly and suffering?
		He wouldn't admit it and would encourage people to believe.

Praise:
	How could a God want the praise of men?
	If the praise is only to bring your mind in line with his will





