Why the church is bad.

1) Restriction of information.
Rather than burning books as in the case of medi-evals and nazis, the church simply does not encourage any enquiry into a different belief.
"You want to study philosophy well there are christian philosophers."
Thinkers like Bertrand Russell and Frederick Nietsche would never be mentioned.
They had arguments why christianity is bad.
The normal democratic procedure is to allow bad arguments and expose them to criticism.
If your aim is to control what people think then allowing bad arguments will force them to think and you will lose control.

2) Restriction of questioning.
This is not that different to restriction of information.
Emphasis here is on the individual thinking for themselves.
Quote: Book of James
If a man prays "help me in my doubts" he is double minded and should not expect anything from the Lord.
Quote: (ref needed)
Faith is being certain of what is unseen and sure of what we hope for.
The protestant reformation compared what the church leaders were saying with what was written in the bible,
found they were different and discarded the church leaders.
This necessitated new, accurate translations of the bible in languages that people spoke.
But the bible is still an ancient document not written in modern language and it required interpretation.
Many reformers took the power of interpretation as the majority of people were illiterate or simply too lazy to
invest time into studying the bible.
If you question the interpretation of the bible that your society has accepted then you will be shunned.
A strong motivation to remain quiet.

3) Specialists deliver your thinking packaged for you.
You are not required to put any effort into thinking for yourself.
The scriptural specialists have done all the thinking that is required.
Trust and obey.
If you have any spare desire to intellectually explore you to may become a specialist, put your thinking here.

Other Religions:
The main focus of this discussion has been protestant christianity, but the main points apply to all other religions.
The people in charge of the organisation gain power over the followers.
They keep the power by controlling the interpretation.
They do not want the followers to think for themselves.

Christianity:
Rather oddly, came from a fusion of Hebrew religion and Greek philosophy.
The Greek philosophy side of things questioned all sorts of things.
Eg. How many angels can dance on the head of a pin?
This religion is the most likely to rationalize and justify its beliefs.

Islam:
Derived from Christianity but removed most of the intellectual difficulties and suppressed dissent.

Judaism:
The origin religion of Christianity.

Hinduism:

Buddhism:






