Why christianity is good and bad

What was christianity?
It was a fusion between Hebrew religion and Greek philosophy.
Central figure - Jesus Christ from the town of Nazereth.

When and where did it originate?
Palestine/Judea which was then under control of the Roman Empire.
Centuries before Jesus, the territory of Judea had been conquered by Alexander the Great, a Macedonian Greek.
Until the coming of the Romans it had been controlled by the inheritors of Alexanders empire, namely the Seleucid Greek dynasty.
During the period after Alexander the non Greek peoples acquired a learning of Greek ideas in a process called Hellenization.

What is influence of Greek on Christianity?
Very large.
The entire New Testament is written in common (koine) Greek.
Christian writings from that period show Greek-like thinking which the earlier writings of the Old Testament do not.
The old testament is command oriented and reportive, that is - do this, do that, this happened, that happened.
The new testament (particularly the writings of St Paul) delves into the process, it tries to answer the why.
	Why did God sacrifice Jesus?
	These are some of the many attempts to answer questions, though many questions are simply not addressed or answered lamely.
Influence of Greek philosophy on further Christian thought.
St Augustine (4th C) asked questions and tried to answer them rather than just obeying and trusting, this is a very socratic thing to do.
St Augustine tried to make the platonic writings compatible with Christianity.
After all Plato's theory of forms was largely compatible with God's perfection.
St Anselm (9th C) have a much ridiculed proof for the existence of God.
	This proof doesn't really work, it relies on twisting definitions and doesn't tell you anything about God.
Thomas Aquinas (12th C) made Aristotle's works compatible with Christianity - the Unmoved Mover is God.
	Aquinas also tried several proofs for God's existence.
After Augustine the Christian church split east being orthodox, the west being Roman Catholic.
The Eastern church was subordinate to the rulers. The Western church was a political power itself.
What then happened is more to do with the Western church.

The reformation.
With new Greek texts appearing largely from Arabic origin.
Monks started making new translations of the bible while doing so they began noticing more and more that what the pope commanded was
not just a bit different from reasonable interpretation of the scriptures but was completely contradictory.
The crunch came when an Augustinian German monk by the name of Martin Luther went to Rome and saw the Papacy wastefully living in reckless abandon
while his fellow Germans were with hardship supporting this by giving their pennies to the church. 
The church was a political power house and a money spinner.
You could buy forgiveness.
Martin Luther pointed out this was against the bible.
The pope excommunicated him.

This is a very large topic let us leave it for now.








