Why Christianity will make more people secular and Islam wont

Christianity is a fusion of Hebrew religion and Greek philosophy.
	Islam is not, it is descended from Christianity.

Christianity encourages people to think.
	There are many paradoxes (some would say out right contradictions) in Christianity.
		Here are some:
		1) How can God be three yet one.
		2) How can Jesus be both Man and God at the same time.
		3) Are you saved by faith or works?
		...

	Explore the mysteries by trying to answer these questions in your life.

Islam discourages independent thinking.
	Are there paradoxes in Islam? (research answer)
	Items that point out that you don't know everything.
		Not statements that say you don't know everything but paradoxes that exercise your mind.
	There is official interpretations of the scriptures.
	Differing Islamic texts were unified by a ruler (get ref.)

Difference in Christian interpretation though was persecuted no longer is.
Difference in Islamic interpretation is persecuted and war against the infidel is still encouraged.

Difference in Christian interpretation is large.
	Baptists disagree substantially with Catholics.
Difference in Islamic interpretation is small.
	The disagreement between Sunni and Shia muslims is only about who inherited Muhammed's authority.

In short people in Christian societies are encouraged to think for themselves and are not persecuted for holding different ideas.
Islamic societies actively persecute people who have different ideas.


Christianity encourages people to think, Islam does not.
Societies that are largely christian are freer, Islamic dominated societies are rigid.
Maybe in the middle ages Christianity was spread by the sword and disbelievers were murdered or shunned but since the reformation, renaissance,
the enlightenment, the age of reason the suppressive practices have stopped and freedom of belief reigned.
SIDELINE: The reformation, renaissance, enlightenment, age of reason and the birth of science occurred roughly at a similar time.
	That time was following the Greeks fleeing the fall of Constantinople bringing different translations of ancient texts.
Islam has never undergone a reformation.
It is still in its medi-eval period and is spread by the sword and intimidates those under its yoke.
Christianity is spread by persuasion, Islam is spread by intimidation.
In christian influenced societies it is safe to apostasize (think and say it is false) or reject it and go off and join a secular group.
All religious societies will punish apostates by shunning.
It is unsafe to say that Muhammed was wrong in Islamic societies.
	To do such invites punishment and death.
It may be safe to think that it is false and not say it but this has several bad consequences.
	You are constantly keeping your inner self hidden else punishment.
		There is a price to be paid for this, in that a portion of your mind will be devoted to the task which is no longer
		available for other endeavours.

In a free society people can choose for themselves and will not be intimidated by shunning.
Exclusion from society is a terrible thing.






