Are religious people good?

Let's look...

Firstly is religion true?
Every religious person claims their religion is true so by logic every one else's religion must be false in some way.
Let us assume that every religion is false.
Religious people will disagree and it will be discussed elsewhere but for this thought experiment we will be considering
someone else's religion.

Secondly, what do you mean by 'good'?
Stage 1:
'good' is an adjective - that is it adds description to a noun.
Examples:
	"Good morning" - the morning is 'good'.
	"That was a good thing you did" - the thing was 'good'.
So religious people is the subject being described as 'good'.
Yes, in many ways the term is used as a noun.
	"He is good"

Stage2:
Who defines what is good?
You do, whether you believe in God or not.
This is also a large question to be discussed but for the purpose here let me define 'good'
as that which brings growth and joy to the individual and the benefit of the human race in which they live
People who promote religion can be divided into several groups.
1) Those who don't believe in what they are saying.
	These people are also called charlatans and frauds.
2) Those who do believe totally in what they are saying.
	Fundamentalists and fanatics.
3) Those who believe partially in what they are saying.
	Most religious people are here.

It should be clear that people who promote something they do not believe are not good.
Their intention is not good whatever they say.

What about people who believe what they promote?
Question is what they say true?
If no then they are promoting a falsehood, this is not a good thing even if the intention is good.
Summarizing:

If the intention is bad then the person is bad or if the thing being promoted is false a good intention does not make it good.

So why do people partially believe?
1) There are advantages in saying you believe.
You avoid punishment and shunning.
You are required to believe to be part of the community.
If you say you don't believe you are an outsider and will be expelled from the community.
Without being part of a community you will suffer and likely die.

2) There are disadvantages of full belief.
a) forcing yourself to believe something you have no evidence for is an act of abusing your own brain.
You lose the ability to tell what is true.
b) you are easy prey to those who rule the religion.
(See Controlling the Interpretation).
The jihadis, suicide bombers are examples of those who have full belief.

How do people partially believe?
Hold part or most of your mind separate.
You say you believe but really you don't.
Only in areas where the claimed belief disagrees with practice is there discontinuity that will show the falsehood.
Examples where there is no incompatibilty between words and actions.
*) A nice person who claims to be a christian, nice and christian are in no way incompatible.
*) A muslim persecuting non muslims - no contradiction, the Koran gives me permission to do this.
Examples where there are incompatibilities:
Christian:
	Jesus says "Do not worry about tomorrow"
	Christian has mortgage and works a career.
