Atheism vs.Agnosticism

There are two questions.

1) Do you KNOW God?
2) Do you BELIEVE in God?

Athiests and agnostics will usually answer NO to both questions.
The difference is in the importance of these questions.

Agnostics the KNOW is more important than the BELIEVE.
With God not being knowable the second question is irrelevant.

Athiests have reasons for not BELIEVING that God exists therefore God is UNKNOWABLE.

Is Agnosticism half way to Athiesm?
There is an idea propounded by athiests and religious people that many agnostics are simply lazy.
If you don't know then look and find out.
Non Agnostic:	Yeah, I get where you are, you just can't be bothered.
Agnostic:	Really? Look exactly where? Isn't this an example of embarking on "a damn fool crusade"?

Agnostic and Athiest.
Athiest:	I have some excellent reasons for why there is no supreme being.
Agnostic:	Philosphers have said such things are unprovable, are they wrong?
Athiest:	Which philosophers?
Agnostic:	Not sure but does that mean I will have to analyze the argument of everyone who claims to have such reasons or only yours?
Athiest:	Mine will be sufficient.
Agnostic:	That is a trust me statement if ever I have heard one.
Athiest:	Lazy Bastard!

Agnostic and Religionist.
Religionist:	God will reveal Himself to you if you trust him to do so.
Agnostic:	You mean first I have to believe in God before I can know God?
Religionist:	Yes.
Agnostic:	Isn't this a circular argument and backwards?
Agnostic:	I mean, I am required to bend my mind to accept that God is and then I'll find out that God is?
Religionist:	I'm not saying anyone has to bend their mind.
Agnostic:	(Taking different approach).
		So God has revealed Himself to you?
Religionist:	Yes.
Agnostic:	Exactly how? (ignoring all opportunities for sarcastic comments).
Religionist:	I prayed the Prayer and Jesus came into my heart.
Agnostic:	What is prayer? How does one pray?
Religionist:	(explains prayer)
Agnostic:	I tried that when I was younger and nothing happened.
		Furthermore, doesn't it say in the book of James some thing like if you doubt then God will not answer your prayer.
Religionist:	I will pray for you.
Agnostic:	Don't you see, that is part of the problem and we are required to trust what other people have said.
Religionist:	I am not lying.
Agnostic:	Maybe not but have you ever believed someone who has lied?
Religionist:	You'll burn in hell.

Agnosticism is not a half way house for those who are losing their religion, though it is used as such by many.

Weak Agnosticism vs Strong Agnosticism.
Weak agnosticism:
	Avoids arguments simply by saying you cannot know.
	How is it good?
		It is diplomatic, not causing offense to others unless they insist on implementing their beliefs.
	Why is this bad?
		Questions are not pursued deeply.
		Conclusions or results that can only be discovered by diligent analysis remain out of reach.
Strong Agnosticism:
	Asks the question "How do you know?" and insists that an acceptable answer is given before any concession is given.
	Someone who is attempting to persuade with bad arguments is forced to confront their reasoning.
	How is it good?
		Enables reason to be properly applied.
		Does not accept faith or belief as pathways to knowing.
		Increases all resistance to accepting bad arguments.
		Allows others to understand the reasoning.
	How is it bad?
		Can be undiplomatic.
		An insistence on strong agnosticism when one is being coerced can lead one to being victimised.
		Someone using bad reasoning will get angry when you do not give in.
Extreme Agnosticism: (also called extreme skepticism)
	No one can know anything.
	How is it good?
		It is not good.
	How is it bad?
		No knowledge is possible with this idea.
		It may be psychologically impossible.
			Example: You are about to be hit by a motor vehicle.
			Do you step out of the way (this means you have some belief in that you could be harmed)?
			Do you remain wher you are with the idea 'no knowledge is possible'?








