Don't Surrender the Interpretation

Ancient documents like the bible and the koran were written in ancient languages.

Old Testament:	Hebrew.
New Testament:	Greek.
Koran:		Arabic.

These documents are used to determine the 'Will of God' by various religious people.
These ancient languages are similar but not the same as their modern descendents.
Translations from the ancient languages to modern ones are available.
The accuracy of these translations is important and subject to questioning.
These books are used to determine how people live their lives so getting an accurate translation is important.

The monopoly of the priests.
To determine the 'Will of God' by these texts requires a translation (an interpretation) from what is written to what
is known of 'God's Will'. The priests were since the early agricultural revolution the interpreters of 'God's Will'.
By controlling the interpretation the priests could control the people.
Power to make the people do what you want.
Their has always been competition for power.
Someone with a different interpretation or different idea is a rival and erodes the power.
These rivals have been crushed and labelled as heretics.

In christianity:
The first major threat to the monopoly came in Christian Western Europe.
If people could translate the scriptures into their own language they might not need the priests.
William Tyndale was the one responsible for the first English translation.

The Protestant Reformation.
It was this position of being the sole interpreter of 'God's Will' that gave power to the priests.
When christian monks whose job was to preserve and distribute the 'Holy scriptures' and provide interpretation in assisting
local priests carry out the will of the 'Church' as announced by the vicar of Christ (the Pope) began seeing discrepancies
between an effective interpretation and what the Pope was ordering people to believe they started to think...
Who is right when the Pope says one thing and the effective interpretation of scripture says another?
The Pope says that he is infallible but is he?
Can the Pope contradict himself?
The German Augustinian monk Martin Luther was paricularly annoyed by his visit to Rome where Pope Leo X lived in excess while
many in Germany were starving while they gave what they could to the church.
What particularly galled him was the Pope advocating selling indulgences, that meant you could buy forgiveness.
The Pope was more interested in money than holiness.
Sola Scriptura - Scripture Alone
His stance was the Pope was wrong the Bible was right.
Many joined him in rejecting the Pope.

Many people have read the bible and are not convinced.
Eg. Penn Jillette who says reading the bible will make you an athiest.

What about other Faiths with Holy Books?
Islam
If we are to determine the truth of Islam then how can we do it?
Can we see the truth of Islam in reading the Koran, like some Christians say about the bible?
Why do Muslims say that only the Koran in Arabic conveys the message of Allah?
Is there something wrong with the way we translate it?
There may be, but wouldn't that be a call to improve or fix the mistakes in the translation?
Or is it another attempt by the Imams to keep control of the interpretation?
Get between 'God's Will' and a believers understanding and you have power over them.












