Jacob I loved, Esau I hated.

You want to be Jacob but what evidence do you have that you are?
You might be like Esau.

I saw recently a YouTube video with Meghan Phelps and Joe Rogan.
In it she talked about Romans 9 and predestination in which some are predetermined as vessels of mercy
while others are predetermined for wrath.
God decides, God chooses who is loved and who is hated, who will go to heaven and who to hell.
How do you determine whether you are being loved or hated?
	It is not by what happens to you in life, it is not whether life is good or bad ...
		God sends the sun and the rain on the righteous and wicked alike. (Ref)
		If life is bad then 'God disciplines those He loves' (Ref)
	You cannot determine whether you are loved or hated while you are alive as what you knew maybe wrong
		and you may find out at the end that you were the other.
		More likely you will die and if the God story is true you will find out, if the God story is not true
			you will never know.
		In either case it will be too late to make anything of your life.

Why say this?
God is meant to love everyone, right?
How can a loving God send people to hell to suffer for eternity?
?????
So what do people do in regard to this?
They have faith, they pretend -
	'If I work at being a saved person then I'll be a saved person'
	No, the decision was made before you were born.
	'If I act and think like a saved person that is evidence that I am a saved person'
	'If I live as a saved person that will mean God has chosen me.'
	Doctrine of mutual selection.
	I choose God therefore God chooses me.
	A clever piece of definition twisting that many biblical scholars engage in.
	Ask yourself can God say 'no'?
		If God can say 'no' then your efforts to find salvation may be in vain.
		If God can't say 'no' then your decision overrules God.
	Mutual selectors will then argue that you cannot decide for God unless God chooses you and
		if God chooses you then you will decide for God.
	This is equivalence God's decision and your decision are the same.








