There are two types of religious person.
The Hypocrite and the True Believer

Hypocrite:
Types of hypocrite:
1) Complete fraud.
	Doesn't believe it at all.
	Takes advantage of anything and refuses anything that will degrade what they actually believe.
2) Double minded.
	Believes some of time and not other times.
	Hedges their bet.
	Says they are a christian but usually pursue their own advantage instead of acting as a christian should.
	Religion is a good thing in moderation.
	Says they believe whatever dogma but the way they live their life does not always support this.
	The questioning is kept secret.

True Believer
Devouted to the cause.
Believes whatever dogma without evidence or question.

Many who think they are True Believers are Hypocrites as well, they are doble minded.
Types of true believer:
1) Zealot
	Always believes.
2) Double minded
	Only believes some of the time.

Double Minded? Listed on both lists why?
Double minded people switch between religious mode and non-religious mode.
Example:
In a religious service or when they read from the scriptures they are in religious mode.
When they plan investments they are in non religious mode.

If pushed sometimes they try to be in both modes at once (Orwell's Double think) but this is rare.
More often is a retreat from thinking that uses statements like I should ... or I am not perfect.
There is self blame rather recognizing incompatible beliefs that lead to incompatible practices.

They have fallen into a dependency.
The dependency is EGO based.
"I have friends, I am not dumb."
To say my beliefs were false is to accept that I was wrong.
This is not easy, usually it is only done when thinking about failure.
This could easily enable people to escape false teaching but religion has another tool ...
Social Control.
All of your friends and family are of this religion so any doubt on your part will mean social suicide.
You will lose all.
The freeing yourself of this mind slavery is not easy, first you have to admit that you were wrong, second you have to be prepared to lose
some if not all of your friends and family.

What to do?
There are two tools that religious groups make use of these need to be dealt with.
1) Bad Thinking.
2) Social Control.
How not to try to free them.
1) Call them a fool, an idiot, a mind slave, etc.
Though this might be true (it often is not) it is unhelpful and will result in a defensive denial.

What is needed to free them.
1) Better thinking.
2) An alternative friend set 


How do you recognize you are in danger of being deceived?
1) Any attempt to hide other options from you.
Restrictions on what media you can watch, what books you can read, etc.
The restrictions can be slight like "here is a christian version of philosophy".
If other ideas are bad then you need to be able to read and analyze them not be treated like a baby who cannot.

2) Any attempt to restrict your circle of friends.
This can be subtle.
It starts with a religious 

Social Religion
people who are part of a christian society, their friends are christians.
They must continue to uphold the beliefs of that society or they will be shunned, losing their friends.
There is strong motivation to conform and not publicly express doubt.
Any strong arguing for 'the cause' is to gain social prestige.
Many do not have strong beliefs and hide this fact.


Career Religion
When a source of income (money mainly, but also job security) become tied to the 'point of view' then
the 'point of view' cannot easily be changed or questioned without a threat to the income source.
Such threats will be resisted.
The income is more important than the truth of the 'point of view'.

The division between true believer and hypocrite seems sharp,
one who steadfastedly believes without regard to evidence
against one who only on a surface believes, but real life things are not so easily separated.
*) Peoples ideas, beliefs change thru time.
What you used to believe is not the same thing that you believe today.
Ever found out something new that was incompatible with what you thought you knew?
*) What people say they believe changes with the people they speak to.
Classic case of the hypocrite you may say but it also applies to the true believer.



