Why is religion bad

2 Main points
1) it encourages you to believe in things when there is little evidence for them.
2) it encourages you to believe you will get what you want simply by asking.
Both are bad things to believe as they are often false.
You do not need to be strongly adherent to any particular creed.
Hence the popularity of astrology and get rich quick schemes.
It does no good to say there is another part of the bible that refutes them.
For most of the existance of christianity the bible was not the authority and most people were illiterate.
So how do 'religious' propagandists avoid this?
Some answers:
"You've got to be sensible."
	This is only used in desperation as it allows and encourages people to think for themselves.
	Sensible has two main meanings:
	1) From the information the body picks up through the senses.
		This will lead to further things that they do not want you to think about.
		How can I sense God? A God that seems not to stir the particles.
		Does my perception of the world alter how I interpret the bible?
	2) Wisdom.
		This is usually what is inferred.
		What is wisdom?
			"Wisdom is the fear of God." Proverbs (ref).
			Let us define 'wisdom' as making the decision and choosing the option with the most desirable consequences.
		Where does wisdom come from?
			Wisdom is unattainable by men. Ecclessiates (ref).
			No help here.
			"I guess I'll just have to make it up."
			OR
			just trust the speaker is wise.
				This is what is wanted in the first place, the surrender of thinking.
				Why is it chosen?
					1) The speaker has an external (to me) view and may have insights that I don't.
					2) It is easier.
						Thinking and finding things out for yourself requires effort.
				Why not?
					The speaker may not be trustworthy.
					The speaker may not be telling you the truth.
					The speaker may not be correct.
					Surrendering your thinking in trusting the speaker will not find out any of these things.

BUT mostly they avoid it by avoiding it.
A person who asks questions may not be worth the effort when there are easier prey.

It encourages the false notion that:
good is rewarded, wickedness is punished.
when strength gets success, weakness gets failure.

Quote Oscar Wilde.

The strong do what they want the weak suffer what they must.
Ancient Greek saying.

"God is on the side of the big battalions." (Ref).




