Guarding against delusion

Do not forget an outside view can be helpful as they can examine the situation without emotional attachment.
Those who want you to be deluded will not be swayed by your hunger, your insecurities, your situation or anything.
Those who are deluded may pity you but not be able to help.
Finally, those not deluded but helpful people may not be around.
So, you are on your own.
Pick yourself up.
This is a challenge for you and you may have no allies.
Preventing delusion is simple - embrace the truth.
It is not easy but there are costs for not doing it.
Do not ignore the costs of not doing it.

1) Take control of your thinking.
	May seem obvious but most the time, most of the people think on auto-pilot.
	What is this?
	There are several modes of thinking:
	1) Fast, pre-programmed thinking.
		This is where most people are most of the time and all people are some of the time.
		It is not 'bad' or lazy.
		It should not be done when:
		1) You are searching for the truth.
		2) Deciding what to practice or study.
		3) Deciding what to do.
		...
		It should be done when:
		1) Executing a skill that you have practised.
			The neural paths have already been built up by the practice.
			You need the speed to perform well.
		...
	2) Slower calculated concious thinking.
		This takes effort and avoiding this is laziness.
		Is needed to:
		1) discern things.
		2) search for the truth.
		3) spot falsehoods.
		...

	How do you recognize the modes of thinking?
	A person operating in fast mode:
		1) voices their opinion.
			They may have or have not studied the matter but the point is they are not thinking through things again.
		2) acts without thinking things through.
			This is not 'bad' when the act has been thought through previously.

2) Learn from what has gone on before.
	Many religious people believe in forgive and forget.
	This is dumb.
	By all means forgive but do not forget.
	If a person has tried to deceive you before ask yourself do I have any evidence that they are not doing it again.
	One of the things taught to young entrepreneurs is persistence.
		If you do not buy lie #1, try lie #2.
		If you do not buy lie #2, try lie #3.
		etc...











