Missing the mental tools.

To see reality and make decisions based on it requires a perception of reality.
If your perception of reality is based on what others say then they can control your behaviour.
If they know your method of making decisions and the data on which you base these decisions then they can work out
what you will decide, this makes you predictable.

Imagine, playing poker where you know when they will try to bluff and when they wont.
You will win the game, excepting extreme bad luck.

It gets worse.
This is a power they have over you.
They will not want to lose this power.
If you achieve enlightenment, think for yourself they will lose this power.
Therefore, they will not want you to think for yourself.
To keep this power over you, they will keep you stupid.

What to do?
1) Recognize they are doing this.
2) Extract yourself from any dependency or reliance on them.
	Emotional dependence including low self esteem that makes you easily manipuable.
	You need to get rid of the lot.
	This will reduce or even eliminate your bargaining position.
	They will use whatever to 'keep you in line'.
	You will need to do this because you may have to cut them off.
	Someone who serves because they are stupid is trusted more than one who knows they have been treated bad
		but lacks power to take action.
3) Value the truth and fact.
	Is the person speaking truly and from a position of knowledge?
	Something is not true because it is compliment for you.
	If someone gives you a false compliment, point it out immediately.
	Ask them why they said such a thing?
	A thing that they either knew was false or they were saying something that they did not know. 
	They most likely will not admit it but the reason they said it was to see what effect it woud have on you.
4) Do not be concerned about them finding out you are thinking for yourself.
	It might be tempting to try to catch them out but don't bother.
	If you have even a modest memory they will have already provided much evidence of what they have done.
	What is your aim?
	If you are good your aim will be along the lines of them realizing what they are doing is wrong and to do what is right.
	In being concerned about what they are thinking you are wasting time and making them the determiner of your actions.
5) Cut them off.
	Most people will realize that you are now analysing what they say and will stop, some will not, some will even try to bend
		you back into submission.
	Whichever way it is, your relationship with them is contaminated.
	For healing it must end.
	That doesn't mean it can't begin again.
	Only next time without this badness.
	The cutting off must be complete.
	No vestige of controlling behaviour can be permitted.
	If you allow any controlling behaviour back in you will make yourself a slave again.
	I hope you can now see the need to rid yourself of any dependency.
	This situation is especially hard for those whose dependency is difficult to get rid of. Eg. Employer, parent of your children.










