Aborigines.

What happened.


Let W - European (person)	B - Aboriginal (person)

Inter-marriage

W		No contact		B
W		Contact			B
		W - Inter-marriage - B
		WB - children (half caste)
1st Generation (half caste) WB, children 2nd generation.
White with WB		Black with WB		WB with WB
WWB			WBB			WWBB
2nd Generation (description is getting confused)
W with WWB	W with WBB	W with WWBB	B with WWB	B with WBB	B with WWBB
+ all existing combinations (W, B, WB, WWB, BBW, WWB).
3rd Generation ...
4th Generation ...

All these are people.
Some children grow up in a W household.
Some children grow up in a B community.
Some W children grow up in a B community.
Some B children grow up in a W household.
Some children are left to die.
Some people of mixed ancestry cannot be easily determined.
Eg.	A person with light skin of their white ancestor and dark curly hair and facial structure of their aboriginal ancestor.
	A person with dark skin of their aboriginal ancestor and hair and facial structure of their white ancestor.
Such people are often considered ugly by both cultures.
Some communities/households are destroyed.
Now, what government policy will there be?
A government policy to address both the injustice and poverty caused by this abuse will be achieved exactly how?
Handing out money to the 'deserving'?
Giving land rights to the descendants?
In both cases we need to look at who pays and who receives.
Money - Who Pays.
Money can only come from the tax payer else a crime will be committed.
So who pays - everyone who pays taxes.
Is this the same as the people who gained by the abuse?
No, those who gained by the abuse minimise the tax they pay.
So those who pay the most tax, the middle class, smokers, drinkers and gamblers do most of the paying while those who gained most pay little.
(need supporting evidence).
Money - Who Receives.
Money is given out to at certain rates and in certain forms and conditions.
Money is given out to people
1) as an incentive to go to school.
2) as a reduction in fees for education.

Money is given out to certain people
Each scheme has its conditions of application.
What does this mean?
Some are included others excluded each scheme has its own basis of discrimination.
Who it pays, who it does not.
One will get money as they fall into the description another will not as they fail to fully meet the criteria.

Land.


Some facts.
The aboriginal culture and people are not dead.
Some people tried to make them dead.
European focus is on pursuit of profit.
(see below about elite whites about what occurs).
A big loss (land, life) happened to the aborigines.

Whose fault is this loss?
Another way to ask this is who profitted by their loss?
Who gained the land and its income.
The poorer whites gained much of the land and carried out many of the murders.
The richer whites who knew the market and had the poorer whites in servitude gained the income.
The poorer whites needing an income sold what they owned of the land.
The squatters often came to own the land on which they lived.
Workers for the pastoralists, farmers and miners did not.
In a representative democracy what would be done?
It was an obvious crime, if the aborigines were human.

Aboriginal humanity.
Are aboriginals human?

Are they fully human?

How were they recognized by the law.


What is government policy?
What makes the government policy?
The politicians decide.
The politicians are elected.
The politicians need votes to be elected.

Politicians are influenced by lobbyists who offer votes in exchange for the politicians supporting their policies.
The lobbyists influence the electorate by whatever means.
A lobbyist who cannot bring votes can still pretend they can.


Elite whites oppress poor whites who in turn oppress blacks.
Elite whites may not be racist but they are not innocent.



