Agreeableness Vs Disagreeableness
Some common characteristics
Agreeable:
  Sacrifices themselves.
  Aim to achieve better for the group/others rather than self.
  Becomes resentful and self blaming if oppressed.
  Peacemakers.
  Can be naive.

Disagreeable:
  Stand up for themselves.
  Will not tolerate people who behave badly toward them.
  Will sacrifice the interests of the group if they are not respected.
  Winners.
  Can take advantage of agreeable people.

People high in disagreeableness can become dominant.
People who are higher in agreeableness will cede them power to attain peace.
One big problem of human societies is the need for both aspects.
Disagreeable people take charge.
Agreeable people are needed to make the society function.
Both are required.
Evolution deselected societies that did not have them in balance.
When agreeable people stay naïve they become prey to the disagreeable.
Others see this and develop disagreeableness.
Without agreeableness fights and killings will be commonplace, such a society will not last long.
Without disagreeableness the society will lose or be subjugated to one that does have disagreeable people.
What goes wrong?
When disagreeable people take advantage of agreeable people they become resentful,
they realize they are being used and not respected.
This resentment leads the agreeable people down the path of thinking 'who cares if it all dies'.
Resentful people not only will withhold information of threats but will encourage the disagreeable person to deceive themselves.
What about Man Vs Women?
Men on average are higher in disagreeableness, women in agreeableness.
There are agreeable men and disagreeable women.
Women are also impelled biologically to be more agreeable.
If not, infants would not survive.
Again evolutionary development has placed some important facets to control human behaviour.
What drives you and what makes you feel good is usually below conscious understanding.
To put it another way biology can drive you without you knowing it.
So what is the problem?
Disagreeable people do what it takes to prosper, there is also a delight some have in others suffering.
If an agreeable person is naive they will get used without appropriate compensation and this will make them resentful.
Resentful agreeable people are prepared to let the situation go to hell.
It should now be easy to see that if women are given the responsibility of raising infants and no appropriate compensation
there will be resentment lying just below the surface.
Evolution is a mechanism and does not care, whatever, as long as the job gets done.
Whoever does the job and whoever benefits is irrelevant.

Now what of human societies?
It is the nature of disagreeable people to do whatever it takes to get to the top and hold that position.
It is a requirement that the agreeable will sacrifice themselves to maintain peace in that society and that resentment
is soon to follow will prevent them from doing it more than once.
In a tyranny the people who try to get to the top, keep others down.
When others are kept down or they think they ought to be punished or they think their circumstances are their own fault
then they do not even try to get to the top.
Petty bad people are happy with being able to order others around even though they have to obey orders from higher up.
One thing it is important to note is you cannot compete in the competition if you do not know that their is a competition
for example the majority of people in North Korea who simply do not know better.
Also you do not compete if you think you'll never get there, example monarchies and you are not of noble lineage.
The bad people who rise to the top become king of a very shallow pile.
The Islamic treatment of women is an example of a group of people who are denied capability of rising.
In contrast a free society allows all to excel.
You may be thinking that some societies are free but in any society there will be people who do bad things and keep others down.

How to make things better.
Overcome the bad side.
Disagreeableness:
  The bad side is promoting your self by wrecking others.
    Do not keep others down.
    Do not delight in others suffering.
    Do not encourage stupid or destructive ideas in others.
Agreeableness:
  The bad side is cowardice, resentment and not opposing falsehood.
    If someone promotes something that is stupid or destructive tell them so.
    Do not engage in secret hate or desire of revenge.
      If you find yourself (and you need to take notice) thinking resentful thoughts then there is a problem.
      Stop what you are doing and write down your thinking and reasoning.
      Search for the problem.
      Work out a solution, if necessary confront the perpetrator, often they will be unaware that there is a problem.
