Authority.

It matters not who you are or who the person is who is telling you things, if you don't use your brain then that is a problem.

To what extent do we rely on authority?
If we ask for specialized information then what the source may reveal is only what the source knows or thinks they know.

Is the intention is to win the debate?
Winning the debate means control of the discourse and respect from others so it is important.
Losing the debate means the opposite not having control and being disrespected.
Problem.
Where does the truth fit into this?
It depends on the audience.
Are they looking for the truth?
An audience member who is after the truth will not accept bad logic and unestablished premises.
This requires effort.
It does not require effort to have your thinking packaged up and presented to you.
Audience members often are there for other reasons than to be enlightened.
Some of these reasons are:
1) boredom.
2) entertainment.
3) accompanying someone else.
4) any of the above.

Audience members want (whether they are open to enlightenment or not):
1) not to be insulted.
2) not to lose prestige to their friends.
3) increase prestige to their friends.
4) be entertained.
5) any of the above.

In a debate audience members who are not interested in finding the truth will like to see the party who holds a different
position from them humiliated, regarding that as winning the debate.
The fallacy of 'Appeal to Authority' comes in two forms:
1) Positive. The offending party claims something as true because someone important or qualified said it.
2) Negative. The offending party rejects the other view because someone is not important or qualified said it.

Quotes:
Richard Feynman:
Do not believe authority whatsoever ... (get accurate reference).
Carl Sagan:
Science has at the most experts ...
Authorities have been wrong in the past and will be wrong again. (Baloney Detector, make ref more precise).
Bertrand Russell: (more precise reference needed).
A man will believe what ever he wants without evidence.
A man can only be persuaded against what he currently believes by overwhelming evidence and even then may still not accept it.






