Bad Thinking.

Are you headed for trouble?

Answer these questions.
Yes or no, if you answer "Don't Know" treat as a No.
1) Do you have a plan?
2) Is your plan going to succeed?
3) Is the success of your plan going to provide what you need and want?
4) Are you making progress on your plan?

Answer "no" to any question you are headed for trouble.
Is this it? If I don't answer "no" am I OK?
Not so fast.
If you wrongly answered any question then you are also headed for trouble.
Time for a review.

Sayings
Quitters never win and winners never quit.
Losers come to an obstacle and quit. Winners come to an obstacle and do whatever it takes to get over it.
Leaders stay at the obstacle and after overcoming it show others how to overcome it.
People need to see life as a very long staircase that they need to climb step by step.
1) They need to see themselves at the bottom, where they are.
2) They need to see themselves at the top, where they want to be.
3) They need to see the staircase before them, what step by step they need to do to climb.
Lacking:
1) The person is in denial or insane.
Many who are here should be thought of as in denial.
2) The person is without ambition or hopeless.
Many who lack 2 have simply not thought about it or not set goals or have defined a plan.
This needs to be done.
3) The person is a wishful thinker.
Most losers lack 3 but they can fix it with help.
Further thinking needs to be done to see the steps that need to be taken.
Where 2 is not having a destination 3 is not having the method to get there.
Dreaming is not going to get you to your destination.
This is the planning stage next is the doing stage.

Getting a person to accept reality is wrong thinking, if it is you who would do stuff to them, they will resist.
Rather encourage a person to seek the truth for themselves.
Ask questions like:
What is the consequence of this?
Why do you not have what you want?
The questions are a discontinuity or are incompatible with their false ideas.
If they answer (not ignore) the question then they are doing their own thinking and may realise where they are.
The important point is that without the person doing their own thinking they are not going to solve this problem.

To solve a lack
1) Seeing where we are. Tough as these may sound most of these are ineffective to a person in denial.
Robert Burns: O wad some pow'r the giftie gie us to see our sels as others see us.
- A mirror, hints from others.
- Accepting criticism.
- Self testing.
2) Seeing where we would like to be.
- People who have success, wealth, contentment.
3) Seeing what we can do to go from where we are to where we would like to be.
There is no way you can get to level 3 from level 1 without passing through level 2.
Wishful thinkers would like to believe they can get success easily.
Teleport, use escalators or have someone else carry them to the top of the staircase, but
it ain't gonna happen.

Difficulties with the staircase analogy.
1) There is no safe spot on the staircase.
Wherever you are circumstance can push you further down and try with all your effort you
might fail to get to the next step.
2) There is no absolute bottom or top. You can always be in a better or worse position than you are in now.
If you think your down there are people even more down. If your broke and unemployed imagine being broke,
unemployed with cancer. Likewise there is no absolute top, if your happily married with kids, own your own home 
and have a steady job imagine being happily married with kids, own your own home
and have interest on the investment interest to pay your living expenses without the need for work.
Resolving the difficulties.
1) Not just circumstances and other people but time's arrow (entropy) means things always get worse in time.
Failing to get to the next step means you need a better plan.
2) 

Chapter - Doctrine
Doctrine has a bad reputation, probably deserved, from conservative organisations such as military and religious ones.
Your doctrine is important because it is your answer to the question why am I doing what I'm doing?
Without effective doctrine you will easily become confused or be misled.
Needs story.

Chapter - Denial.
What is living in denial?
Pretending something is the case when it is not.

Am I in denial?
Difficult question, if you are you will also answer no.

Others can help answer it.
Do others disagree with you?
Do others hint that you may not be correct?
Do you punish others for expressing disagreement?
Do you not encourage others for expressing opinions that disagree with you?
Answer 'no' to any of the above and others may not be helping you.
Do formerly friendly people avoid you?
This is almost a give away that they think you are wrong and in denial.

If so, are you right? If you think you are, have you tested to see if you are?
If others do not disagree with you, do they hint that you are not correct?

Embracing reality.
People in denial are often faced with the truth.
When faced with the truth activities of denial often don't work.
Mercy is usually not found, suicide seems the only option.
Laughter of your enemies (now you recognize them as such) is a bitter pill.
"it is your fault", "you deserve this", "you brought it upon yourself" are common comments.

Dealing with others who are in denial.


Chapter - Getting and accepting help from others.
Knowing people.
Some people can help you others can't.
Some people will help you others won't.
The people who won't help you are either indifferent or annoyed with you or life.
People need reason to be generous if no one has been generous to them then why would they be generous to others.
Some people who won't help you have been used and given nothing in their past by others.
Some people who won't help you may sell (giving up something they desire is required) to you.
Some people want to see your need and profit by it.
Some people want to help only so they can feel superior.
The help offered may not be what you want or need.

Reciprocity.
Everything you get you have to return value for even though some things are free you are still expected or hoped to repay.
If you shun or treat badly someone who is offering to help then they will not offer help to you again and might not
offer help to anyone else again.

Summary.
Do your best to provide for yourself.
Ask for help for something you need, never want.
Remember, it is what you gain not what another sacrifices that matters.
Do not ask bad people for help.
In asking for help you can determine what the person thinks.
	If the person says 'no' or equivalent then leave.
	If the person offers no help but a trade then consider cost/benefit.
	If the person offers help that is not 

Chapter - Helping others.
Judge your own moral position.
Everyone:
	I will help people to increase my prestige.
	I will help people to avoid being socially shunned if I don't.
	I will help people to put a burden of repayment on them.
Select one of the following.
Selfish:
	No one helped me why should I help anyone?
Ordinary:
	I will help only those who I think may help me in the future.
Altruistic:
	I will help anyone as its the right thing to do.




