Cinderella Simplex

This is where your focus is putting others into your debt.
You work hard to 'earn' respect.
You work hard to set yourself up in a better position.
This is not just work to improve everybodies life but work to put yourself in a better position over someone else.
Your work becomes a status symbol saying 'I am better than you', 'I deserve good things but you don't'.

Does your work retard people making them dependent on you?
Is your response to do the job rather than show the person how they can do the job?.
Do you do the job yourself when the other person should do the job even when they will do a worse job and need to learn how to do that job?
If you answer yes to any of these questions then on that occasion you are exhibiting Cinderella Simplex.

Why do people do this?
1) They believe that the debt will be repaid.
	This is pretend.
	Users and free loaders have no intention of repaying.
	Some believe God will repay, this is even more pretend, how is it God's debt? did he ask you specifically to do this specific thing?
2) They believe they will gain a reputation for hard work.
	Maybe they will but they will also gain a reputation for stupidity, stubbornness or obnoxiousness.
3) They believe they will increase their 'deservedness'.
	To claim hard work, yet yield to the person no wanted benefit, deservedness does not increase.

What happens if you do this?
1) You show that you are not a leader.
	Trying to do everything yourself will lead to failure of larger projects.
2) Animosity.
	People do not like being put in another's debt.
	People do not like to be disrespected as incompetant.
3) Being used.
	If you are going to do it without much persuading, OK, I'll sit back and allow you to do it.
	The user is not going to acknowledge any debt.
4) Danger of Co-dependency.

Co-dependency
One of the problems with doing something yourself when another should be doing it, is that they don't learn how to do it.
In future they will ask you to do it.
It is easier to ask someone to do it than to do it yourself when you haven't learnt from the mistakes of trying to do it.
The FREE-LOADER is the co-dependent of the CINDERELLA.
The FREE-LOADER takes where the CINDERELLA gives.
The CINDERELLA develops an emotional/psychological need to provide.
The FREE-LOADER in taking what the CINDERELLA provides for free becomes dependent on the CINDERELLA.
Some may argue this is a free exchange that benefits both but
they are no longer 'free', they cannot redefine their relationship or leave for something else.
There is incentive to stay as they are.
A CINDERELLA that loses their FREE-LOADER has an unfilled emotional need and will get depressed.
A FREE-LOADER that loses their CINDERELLA will be in economic difficulty.
They are trapped.

How to overcome this co-dependent trap?
1) Liberate your self from your need.
2) Allow and encourage the other to liberate themselves
These need to occur together.
