Cut them Off

You have heard how others can influence you.
That you become like the people you hang out or spend time with.
One common piece of advice is to cut off bad influences and do not be friends to people who have a negative influence on you.
In getting rid of bad influences or things that keep you down your relationships are important.

There are 3 sorts of negative people that you need to get rid of.
The final step of not associating with them is the same but what is said to them is not.

They are:
1) Positive Slacker.
2) Hopeless depressive.
	By 'Hopeless' I mean not the general insult but more literally one who is without hope.
3) Saboteur.

What they do:
1) The positive slacker is one who says self improvement is a good thing but does nothing.
	All talk, no action.
2) The hopeless depressive is one who does not even agree that self improvement is worthwhile.
3) The saboteur gives you reasons to do nothing or wrecks your reasons for doing something.

What motivates them:
1) The positive slacker wants the benefit of self improvement and relationship with you but does not want to put in any effort.
2) The hopeless depressive is overwhelmed by futility.
3) The saboteur wants power.
	
What do they want:
1) The positive slacker wants things easy.
2) The hopeless depressive wants life to be meaningful but doesn't believe it is.
3) The saboteur wants to control you and to destroy your independence.

Why they are bad for you:
1) The positive slacker will not give you motivation when the going gets tough.
	They will provide you reasons to quit and not persevere.
2) The hopeless depressive.
	Their attitude of 'why bother' will poison your motivation.
	Follow their way and you wont quit because you wont even start.
3) The Saboteur is the worst. They will ruin you and do not care.

Can they be saved?
Not by you.
Only by them putting in effort to do so in changing their thinking and behaviour.
Can I help save them?
1) Positive Slacker - Yes.
2) Hopeless Depressive - Yes.
3) Saboteur - No. Don't risk yourself.
How do I help save them?
Tell them what they need to do.
1) Positive Slacker.
	Assign them tasks to do.
	Examples of tasks:
		Lose 1kg in the next week.
		Read this (choose one) book in a couple of days then write a short description (1/2 to 1 page) of what the book was about.
	The point of this is to make it clear to them that they must do if their actions are to match their words.
	If they say it is childish say that it is childish to say you'll do something and then not do it.
	It will become clear whether they have any commitment or they just don't want to put in the effort.
2) Hopeless Depressive.
	The fundamental problem of the hopeless depressive is that they do not see any point of life.
	They need to deal with this fundamental problem.
	1) They need to understand that they only get one life.
		There is only one shot, that is it.
		There is no evidence of heaven or of God making it better.
		There is no evidence of anybodies existance surviving death.
			Yes, there are stories of people remembering past lives but these are just stories, there is no evidence.
	2) They need to understand that they can make a difference.
		Examples of successful people like Elon Musk are important here.
		They prove that a person can make a difference.
		This is not a guarantee that you will make a difference.
3) Saboteur.
	The only way you will help this person is if they realize this path does not work.
	You are not going to be put down.
	Say 'no' to them, say why then leave.
	If they consider what they are doing how it didn't work with you and they have to do something different they will have saved themselves.
	Many will not admit that what they were doing was bad and will look for another victim.
Why help them and not just leave?
	1) Your success.
	The mind work involved in this will help you solidify your position.
	You will have planned what you are going to say to them.
	You will have reinforced how you intend to deal with them and anything they may say.
	It is far less likely you will be talked out of what you intend.
	2) It will put the emphasis on them.
	Whenever they remember you, they will remember that you told them that this was a problem and they did not deal with it.
	If they meet you again they will remember it was their fault, they will not be able to blame you.
		Some people will distort their own memory to hold themselves innocent but this is only adding delusion to their problems.
		It will further give you reason that you did the right thing in cutting them off.


 








