Do it Harder

Story:
I was eating lunch in the food section of a pub when in walked a man.
He was in his late twenties and seemed very sad.
Ordering some food he spoke to the person who took his order.
'I lost $600 on the pokies last week'
to which she gave this reply
'put some more in and see if you can win it back'

Some really bad advice often given when something doesn't work is 'try harder'.
What really needs to be done in the first place is an experiment to answer the question 'Does this work?'
Many times this experiment can be run simply by thinking things thru and little risk is required.
Sometimes you can fail to achieve because you simply do not put enough in.
Unless you are thinking things thru with the purpose of answering the question 'Does this work?' you will not know whether
the 'try harder' advice is any good.

One area of 'try harder' that should not be overlooked is prayer.
If you pray and things do not improve, there will be all sorts of excuses as to why.
Some excuses are:
  God answers in His own time.
  Who are you to tell God what to do?
  God sometimes says 'No'.
  The purpose of prayer is to align yourself with the will of the almighty not fix your problems.
  God does things for a reason and there is much you do not know.
Some people who promote this belief will be antagonistic towards you.
You have spoken an instance that questions the belief that they are promoting and they want to shut you down.
So they say it is your fault.
Some ways they do this:
  God answers the prayer of the righteous and does not listen to the prayer of the wicked.
    Implication being you are one of the wicked whom God ignores.
    A note on this: A verse in Romans and Psalms 'All have sinned and turned away'
    so everyone can be part of the wicked whom God ignores.
    This means God is not required to answer anyone's prayer.
  You lack faith.
    Jesus 'If you had faith as big as a mustard seed you could move mountains'
    The mountain has not moved therefore you lack faith.
  You doubt.
    Book of James
    "The man who doubts should not expect to receive anything from the Lord"
    You doubt, therefore you get nothing.
    A side note: if you want to know if God is true, sorry, you don't believe therefore you don't get even the notification that God is true.
So if prayer doesn't work for you it is your fault.
Athiests will shake their heads "did you expect it to".
