Four people of projects

Customer:
The one who buys the product.
Aim: The best product for the least cost.
Avoid:
	Buying a product that is not wanted or which does not do what is required.
	Spending too much.

Worker:
The one who builds the product.
Aim: To build a good product and be paid for effort.
Avoid:
	Build a bad or unwanted product.
	Not to be paid properly.

Investor:
The one who provides the resources for the product.
Aim: return on investment.
Avoid:
	To not get sufficient return on investment.

Entrepreneur:
The one who brings it all together.
Aim: Gain money.
Avoid:
	Lose money. Definition of 'Project Failure'.


Aren't people a mix of these things?
Yes,
workers need skills to be able to develop the project so they are also investors.
workers are further encouraged to become investors by stock options.
entrepreneurs do not want any one else becoming an entrepreneur anyone who can build the product AND sell it can take the business away.
Finally, everyone:
	invests time.
	needs to understand what the project is.

How can this become screwed?
Any of the avoids will do it.

Many complain but where is the real lack?
Most of the profit goes to the entrepreneur so their views get the most hearing.
Lack of workers: entrepreneurs complain about this when they have trouble finding competant workers who will work for a pay that means
	the project will be very profitable.
Lack of customers: if the product does not meet the customers expectations one of two things is the cause:
	1) The product is not good enough.
	2) The customer is not stupid enough.
Lack of investors: if an entrepreneur claims this they are incompetant as an entrepreneur.

You sound anti-entrepreneur, do you have it in for them?
No, bringing it all together is necessary, entrepreneurs is just a label for this.

Faults of entrepreneurs, are not others guilty?
Here are some of the faults of other parties:
Customers:
	Buying products that are not used.
	Offering money for something that is not good.
Workers:
	Producing a product or delivering a service that is not good.
	With-holding anything that will lead to a better product.
Investors:
	Allocating resources to a bad project.
	Not allocating resources or allocating insufficient resources to a good project.

Faults everyone is capable of doing and some do continually:
	Wishful thinking - pretending something is true when either you have no evidence for it or denying evidence against it.
	Cheating others - the success of the project depends on all working together effectively.
		When the customer cheats - insufficient money rewards the worker, the investor or the entrepreneur OR money is allocated to
			a bad end. Bad ends include buying weapons or inside information.
		When the worker cheats - the product loses quality.
		When the investor cheats - the cost of the resources is too high and the others have to pay.
		When the entrepreneur cheats - someone has to pay, any of the following are possible:
			1) their is insufficient reward for the worker.
			2) the customer is not happy with the product.
			3) the investor gets less return.
	Stupidity - more general than wishful thinking but the other side of cheating others is allowing others to cheat you.

Making it go right.
1) Know that 'success' will mean getting it all in the right proportion.
	If any party feels they have not been given sufficient they will resent it.
	In resenting, the 'success' of the project will no longer be a priority.
	This will only harm the project.
2) Know that when you 'cheat' or take advantage of someone who is foolish there will be bad consequences for you when (and they eventually will)
	realise they have been cheated.
3) Make it clear who does what, who brings what.
	If one party doubts they may withhold and this can ruin the project.

Do people want to get something for nothing? If so why?
Often they do but the project is not going to succeed.
Nobody will want to do business again with someone who cheats. 


Where does 'Do It Yourself' fit in to this?
In DIY you become every aspect of the project.
You are the customer as you get the product.
You are the worker as you build the product.
You are the investor as you provide the resources for the product.
You are the entrepreneur as you bring it together or not.



