Chapter - Gambling
This so called industry is rich with bad thinking.
Ancient proverb - In a bet there is a fool and a thief.

Much of the detail of this is "Commercial in Confidence" and not easily available.
Why give suckers an even break.

Definitions:
Punter - the one who bets or gambles almost always the fool.
RTP - Return To Player. The statistical average return.
	RTP is often expressed as a percentage with 100% being even chance.
	To make money the business has to have less than 100% RTP or it is giving out money.
	A typical RTP of slot machines is 90% this means for a $1 bet you will statistically receive back 90 cents.

Characteristics of Gambling Operations.
- zero sum. That is for every winner there must be a loser.
- produces nothing while using time and effort.

The first argument is mathematically based and the only one that is needed.
To 'need' the other arguments shows the first argument is not used, this is an error, it is the best and most
robust of them all.
The other arguments may be valid but they possess weaknesses some not immediately apparent.
Argument list:
1) You are statistically going to lose, they will statistically win. (Best argument, always true).
	Why is it not so lame?
		i) To discard this argument requires discarding the reasoning that supports it.
2) The chance of top prize is very low.
	Why is it lame?
		i) Optimism bias, "I am going to win top prize regardless of what you say."
		ii) Often not true. If you buy every combination in a lottery you will win.
3) Top prize is not going to do you any good.
	Why is it lame?
		i) Can easily be discarded.
			"Are you sure?". After all it has never happened before (for me).
			"Give me a million, I'll show you."
		ii) Does not apply to all forms of gambling.
			Eg. Pokie/slot machines not linked to a state lottery.
		iii) "People have been ruined by sudden massive wealth.", "But not me."
4) Divine punishment or superstition or tradition.
	Why is it lame?
		i) Change your mind and this reason goes away.
5) Peer pressure.
	Why is it lame?
		i) This reason can go away with different 'friends'.
			



How gambling operations work:
- businesses (that remain) are profitable. Operators always have a statistical advantage.
- business profit = total amount lost (from punters) - total amount given out in prizes (to punters) -
	other expenses(tax, advertising, venue operation).
this means that all money (both given out and not given out in prizes) comes from the punter.

So what bad thinking is involved?
Wishful thinking - that somehow the above does not apply to you.
There a number of silly beliefs used by people and exploited by operators.
1) Luck - that a person is intrinsically better off than the average.
Optimism Bias is at play here. The person believes they have better odds than they do.
2) Being able to influence the result or the probabilities.
There are two points here: those that can influence the result and those that do not but only think they can.
Those who do influence the result are acting in a way that the operators have not thought of and
are probably doing something illegal. Being a zero sum operation if the player is getting money
the operator is not, bad things tend to happen to those who try to cheat the cheater.
The beliefs that people think they can improve there odds include:
- Fate. I am destined to win.
- Spirits/gods. The average may effect other people but my relationship with X changes that. X will make me win.
X can be almost anything. Some examples are: my guardian angel, the goddess fortune or a deal with the devil.
- Unrelated actions. Can be anything examples are praying to saints, closing ones eyes before hitting the button.
- Previous wins/losses. Commonly called the Gamblers fallacy. In some states it is illegal to have a gambling result
calculation that is modified by past performance.
Eg. If the result can be either red or black. Red has come up several times in a row therefore black is due and more likely.
This is like after flipping a coin three times and getting three tails believing that the next flip heads is more likely.
If the result is unaffected by previous results this is no advantage to know past results.
- Desparation. Being more desparate does not improve your odds.

Lotteries
One very large prize with very low chance of getting it, numerous small prizes.
RTP is low. NEED References: I have seen 65% for 1999 - 2000 NSW and 51-52% for Australia in 2 different years.

Slot/Poker Machines
Top prize is usually around $10,000 for a bet of $10.
RTP is typically between 88% and 90% for clubs, 92% is more typical for casinos.

How to overcome these silly notions.
Remember:
1) It is a business, it is there to make money.
2) All money comes from the gamblers.
Ask yourself:
1) What reason should any spirit/god give me free money at anothers expense?
2) What makes me think that my chances can be improved by me doing anything?
Be Aware:
Simply wanting to win will not improve your chances.


How many games would you have to play to have a 50% chance of top prize.
Easy in one draw. What about 10 games per draw, 1 draw per week, how many weeks?
