gambling ads

Adds usually show men in control, choosing their bets and encouraging those they have bet on to win.
Several things are typical of an advert.
1) There is a target audience. In this case men.
2) It is socially acceptable, they are doing it with their friends, so it is OK.
3) They are seen having fun.

Several things are false about this advert.
1) The men are not in control of the outcome of what is bet on only on their own thinking.
2) When you lose, which is not shown it occurs after, the result is not happy.
	There is remorse, disappointment and sometimes thinking through what occured and why.
	
3) That these people are there friends is an assumption.
	Do they support a loser?
	Are they only encouraging the person to bet?

One recent gambling add - 5/10/2016
Shows a rugby star being sung to by a middle aged man through car windows stopped at a traffic light.
The rugby star winds the window up.

The message seems to be you are a dip shit as you are causing an embarrassing scene.
The message is effectively you doing dumb things.
Message for bettors:
	Betting is dumb.
	You are being dumb.
	You do not realize you appear this way to others.
	This is where reinterpretation and justification occur.
	"I am not dumb".
	It is this guy who is singing is dumb.
	End result: some one else is dumb not me.

Message for investors:
	There are dumb people out there.
	You can make money off dumb people.
	It is OK to take advantage of dumb people.

What is it like as an ad?
Mixed.
For bettors:
	It provides an alibi for betting. "some one else is dumb not me".
	At the cost of a possibility of realizing it is a dumb activity and stopping it.
For investors:
	The message is that this is an OK company to invest in.
This is definately a mixed blessing advert.
It does provide the bettor with an excuse to keep believing that betting is OK but there is a very real chance
that it will insult them or worse part of their mind will now realize things are wrong.
There is always the likelihood that the bettor will blame themselves as the source of the wrongness and not look further
but continued insults will not produce good results.


