gambling

Hard vs Soft
Hard - specified by law. Restricted to over 18s.
Examples:
	Casinos,
	Lotteries,
	Sports betting (including animal racing).
	Poker/slot machines.

Soft - Unrestricted.
	Prizes awarded by chance for a non monetary cost.
	Non monetary costs include:
		Purchase of products.
		Store credits.
Examples:
	McDonald's Monopoly Game.
		Prizes for collecting sets of tokens received from purchasing products.
	Game Parlour Prizes.
		Prizes for credits received from playing games at cost.

Legal vs. Illegal vs. Quasi-legal.
Some operations are fully legal, some are fully illegal others in between.
The law fails some peoples expectations, see argument 'Why the law fails.'

Define 'Gambling'
How do I know if I'm gambling?
Gambling involves chance not definiteness.
	There is no 'I will do this'.
	You will get pay off only if something happens.
Gambling is zero sum. That is the sum of all loses is given to the winners.
Pedantically gambling is worse than zero sum.
Gambling contributes nothing but takes peoples time.
So there is a loss that does not go to the winners.

The argument against gambling.
1) Businesses aim to make money.
2) If statistically the odds are in their favour they make money and you lose money.
	If not they lose money.
3) 1 and 2 mean you lose by what they offer (the odds are in their favour) or they are dumb and won't be in business long.
4) If the odds are against you then you will statistically lose, this is foolish.
	If the odds are for you, you are a thief. A later argument will show you why this is wrong or bad.
Conclusion:
Don't gamble. At All. Legal or not.

Why is this 'The' argument surely there are others.
There are others each of them has an aspect of lameness or they simply fail in certain conditions.
This argument is based on accurate thinking, the calculation of odds on mathematics.
Remember the money will follow the odds.
If you bet against the odds you are the fool.
If you bet with the odds you are the thief.

Some areas that can be used like gambling.
Stock Market.
	
Foreign Exchange.

Some 'respectable' areas that are sometimes like gambling.
Insurance.
The initial idea promoted of insurance is everyone pays a small amount regularly



