getting stuff done.

People avoid you because you do not get stuff done.

You do not get stuff done because you only do the easy stuff.
Completion involves getting all the stuff done.
If you don't do the hard stuff, you don't complete and you don't get stuff done.
If you don't get the stuff done you will have no reward to share with others.

Medieval error bad is good and good is bad.
Want good in the next life, you must suffer in this one.
This is silly.
What evidence do you have that there is a next life?
Let me guess, you are just trusting what some one told you.

Ask why would that be true?
Ask how the person would know that?
The first part is odd altering people's definitions.
The second part can only be evidenced by someone coming back from the dead and even then how do you know they are correct?
What we do know...
What one person suffers does not bring prosperity to another.
Ex. You can whip yourself but it is not going to make me richer.

Fun and Happiness
see Karl Kruselnicki
Fun:
	To get:
		Do what you want.
	What you have to give:
		time
		effort - very little
	Results:
		pleasure - for now, it won't be there for long

Happiness:
	To get:
		work towards accomplishment of your purpose.
	What you have to give:
		time
		effort - sometimes painful and hard.
	Results:
		a life that has meaning
		something to give to others (if your purpose is good).

Follow the logic
You are told "to achieve your dreams follow your passion".
This can easily be changed to "to achieve your dreams do what you want".
The consumer world is about selling effort in an easy to use form.
Fun is a transaction of time and some money buying pleasure.
You might get more money, you will never get more time.
Not only the pleasure will not last, the memory of it will fade and it will not help in times of trouble.
The memory of happiness lasts into the hard times.
Quote Mike Warnke. They say "You had your fun times (drugs)". Funny, I don't remember it.
Don't substitute "do what you want" for "follow your passion".
Doing what you want will mean you are a slave and will not accomplish anything.

Doing the hard stuff.
see John Sonmez about doing the hard stuff.
see Zed Shaw about eating the poison.
Stuff you don't want to do becomes easier to do when you do it.
Hard stuff is not always good.
Ask am I doing this hard stuff to achieve my purpose or for some other reason?
Some other reason means a problem. For example the medi-eval fallacy.

Why is this not taught and encouraged?
Why? What benefit is there for me?
If you wreck yourself am I not better than you (relatively)?
If you fall over in the race will not this enable me to win even if I am much slower?
No one wants to be seen as promoting stupidity - go on smoke the cigarette but if you do I may win.

Winning is the aim for most. I am a winner you are a loser. Look at the score.





