Getting Rid of You - Losing friendship.

Signs that you are being gotten rid of:
1) Increased formality.
	Where you used to be a friend, you are now just another person.
	You used to be called by your nick name you are now called by your title.
	When someone wants to cut you off it is easier to do if you are just another person.
	
2) Use of precise language and only dealing with what you say on face value.
	Friends will see into your speech and ask you what you mean.	
	This sign is not sufficient to say your friendship is over, your friend may simply be trying to improve themselves.

3) They do not help you.
	When someone wants to cut you off they don't want to spend anymore effort on you.
	The effort they have already spent on you, they now consider a waste.
	You are a failed experiment that is to be stopped.
	This is the most definate sign of having been cut off.

4) Public contempt.
	If they ever hold you to ridicule in public then they are not your friend.

What Not To Do:
1) Pretend - if you see any of these signs do not ignore them.
	The worst thing you can do is pretend someone is your friend when they are not.
	
2) Think you can save a relationship if you have seen the signs more than once.
	Seeing any of these signs (except sometimes 2) means they have already decided to avoid you.

3) Carry out any sort of revenge.

4) Become paranoid.
	Being constantly on the lookout for these signs will distract you from being a friend and worry them that you do not trust them.
	It will make them more likely to cut you out than before.

5) Show neediness.
	A friendship is mutual and there is what you bring as well as what they bring.
	The value you add to the friendship is why they want to be friends.
	If you send the message that you need this friendship but are not bringing value then they will see you as a burden
	and both are more likely to want to cut you off and hold you in contempt.

What To Do:
1) Think things through.
	Ask yourself what was the basis of the friendship?
	Is the basis of the friendship still valid?
	Can the friendship be saved?
		If the basis of the friendship is still there it might be able to be saved otherwise no.
		If mutual trust is lost then no.


If the decision to cut you out has been made:
1) Accept their decision.
	Pretending that a friendship is real when it is not is stupid.
	Doing so may show them that they can easily control you.
		If they say to you some words then you will do what they say.
2) If they want to cut you out then they will not likely give you any sort of truth or parting advice, don't seek it.
3) Make your own plans.
	You will need to replan your life without them.
	You need to replan even if your former plans did not mention them, there may be a subconcious influence.




