Insecure People

How is a person 'Insecure'?
  A person is insecure if they depend too much on external sources.
  The secure person will always be looking to develop self reliance.
  That is the secure person may depend upon something early on but will work to eliminate the dependency.
  So that if something breaks down and all things move towards this, entropy, then the other systems will
  be able to support the enterprise rather than everything becoming hell.

How an 'Insecure' person is bad?
  An insecure person is dependent on others and will do the people they are dependent on's bidding regardless
  of what they need to do themselves for others.
  That is an insecure person is unreliable.
  Given the choice between fulfilling a contract and doing what the people they are dependent on, you will lose out.
  Even if they are not dependent on a specific person they will betray you for the promise of security.

What to do.
*) remove your dependency on the insecure person.
  You are self reliant? You don't want an unnecessary risk?
*) don't allow yourself to become dependent on them in any way.
*) don't use them when you don't need to or another way is much harder.
  Using them will increase their psychological dependency on you.

How to help an insecure person.
Assuming you want to, some want to stuff people up, others just don't care.
The aim is to replace insecurity with courage to tackle future problems.
Recognize what are the main areas of insecurity.
  Some areas that may need fixing are:
  1) Incompetant - not having a skill to a high level that can be their financial support, meaning
    they will not need to depend on anyone financially.
  2) Need for external validation. - not be emotionally dependent on any one, be complete in your self and not seek others approval.
  3) Cowardice. - be able to stand up for yourself.
    Be capable of fighting for what you think is the truth instead of getting a reputation for doing what others want after they put
    you under emotional stress.
