interpretation

How is 'scripture' interpreted?

Which parts of 'holy scripture' are interpreted as a directive for everyone and which are a directive for the audience alone?
Why do "Love your neighbour" get interpreted as a command for everyone while the food laws are only for ancient Israel?
Isn't personal interpretation overriding (or translating to you) what you get from the text?
THE TEXT->MY INTERPRETATION->MY UNDERSTANDING
Different interpretations lead to different understandings with the same text.

What the text is used for ...
a source of authority - the bible says this so you need to do that.

The text is fixed, static, not changing.
If the interpretation is controlled the understanding from that will be likewise controlled as it flows from the interpretation.
Control the understanding and you control behaviour.
This is the power to control how others live their lives.
Power attracts the nicest and most moral people, Not.

How to control the interpretation:
*) An authority gives its interpretation.
	Enter organized religion - "this is how you must interpret the texts".
	

Didn't people rebel against this?
Yes,
Looking first at the Judeo-Christian-Islam tradition.
Judaism has always been a minority religion (except at some times, usually in Israel) and not in possession of political power,
thus focussing on external enemies.
Catholic Christianity - there was formal rebellion against the church it is called protestantism.
	This occurred because reading of the texts was at great odds with what the church was teaching.
	Protestant christianity emphasised personal faith and scholarship.
	Study the bible for yourself.

Orthodox christianity had much less deviation from the texts and was very much more subservient to the rulers of the state.
Islam -

Mysticism.
People have rejected the authorities interpretation to make up their own.
Quakers departed the protestant christianity interpretation 

Don't the 'texts' change?
Different people hold different 'texts' true?
Yes,

There is a need to reconcile differences in understanding so people can follow a single interpretation leading to a single understanding.
Conversion:






