Level 50 Wizard still a loser

Why gaming is bad.
By 'gaming' I mean computer games, video games and phone games, not gambling.
Gambling is a different sort of bad.

It is fantasy not reality.
You spend real time for unreal rewards.
What do people see in computer games?
*) Never face real consequences of a bad decision.
You can start again if things go really bad or just do things better next time.
You don't have to fix problems and don't get clobbered if things go really bad.
Sure your character can die but most games you can either respawn or reload from a previous saved game,
in games you cannot you can restart the game from the beginning.
*) Be able to turn effort into reward without risk.
	The reward is not real though the effort is.
*) People want to feel important, you can feel important in a game regardless of what others are like.
*) In working out the rules of the game you can optimise your efforts, in real life this is not easy to do.

The divorce from reality continues ...

Single Player vs Multi Player and Online
Single Play
you can use save/restore method to look into/control the future, sometimes the ability to do this is curtailed.

Multi Play
To present a consistent view, a single universe for everyone, the save/restore methods in single play are impossible.
Anonymity: Others will only see an 'avatar' of you, not the real you. Only anonymous if the others don't know who you are.
What was common in the 1990s were LAN parties where people would connect their PCs to play, you could see the other people.

Online
Your play data is saved on a server this means the save/restore methods of single play cannot be done.
Consequences of unintended actions cannot be undone, you will face consequences of bad decisons, such as pressing the wrong button.
Since your play data is on the server it can be edited by anyone who has control of the server.
Your play data contains the results of your time investment and it can be changed.
Great trust to people you don't know who are operating a business.
Where is the evidence for a change?
You have only your memory or personal records (which most players do not keep, it requires effort and there is no known reward).
This means you have no substance for appeal in a dispute.
"But the people who run the business would not work this way.", you say.
You'd be right, as the people who run the business do not want you to realize this.
The business profits by players addiction and keeping the cash coming in.

Further Addiction of Online games.
1) Community.
There is a need for people to be a part of a community.
'Lone Wolves' tended to have very short lives and were eliminated by evolution.
Online games have 'Guilds' which you can join.
Guilds are collectives where people can contribute to and be a part of an online 'family'.
The contribution aspect is important.
You can get a sense of 'family' by contributing or helping fellow guild members.
Fellow guild members are also called 'guildies' this name comes from the middle or lower class Australian practice of converting a
noun (guild) into one who is member (guildie) by attaching a vowel, this also makes it easier to string ideas together and it is
not so Australian it is just a simplification of the language.





