Living in a bubble.

The problem with many is that they do not look for what IS.
Instead they pretend that what they want to believe IS.
A further problem of this is that it corrupts your ability to understand reality and you cannot see beyond the bubble.

Theories of knowledge - Correspondance vs. Coherence.
Knowledge by correspondance (not writing to your friend).
Knowing whether things are true or not by how they correspond to the real world.
This is the basis of the Scientific Method.
If it does not match reality it is false.
Knowledge by Coherence
Knowing truth or falsehood by whether it fits in (coheres) with what we already know.
It is clear that correspondance is a better way to find things out.
Coherance is not without any merit.
Consider a scientist asked the question: Do ghosts exist?
Correspondance is useless at answering this question.

Trying to live in the bubble.
If something disagrees with the constructed ideology then there must be something to explain it, the bubble cannot be wrong.
Eg. Many psychics have been tested by James Randi and others and when their claims have not been demonstrated they come up with an
explanation of why it did not work, there was a complete refusal to accept the possibility that they do not have special powers.

Why is the bubble being protected?
Rather than imagining concepts such as memes where the bubble itself has an self preservation instinct much can be explained
simply by the persons ego.
The person has invested in the bubble and stands to lose this investment if the bubble is wrong.
Thought Experiment: Imagine a religious priest who has spent years studying and building up reputation in a church.
	Ask yourself what would the consequences be if they newly thought their theology was wrong?
	The person would have to accept they have wasted any investment (time, effort).
	Lose any benefits of believing such as assurance of eternal life.
	Be seen as an apostate by believers.
	OR
	They could pretend that ther is no conflict.
	Which is easier? Which is better?

What is needed?

Finding reality and breaking out of the bubble.
Firstly think for yourself, do your own thinking.
If you don't then you will be trapped by having your thinking, interpretation or understanding limited to what they say.
Secondly you will need a safe haven for your ego while you think through things.
If you don't then you may slip back to asking someone else to do your thinking for you.

Be ready to accept loss.
Personal loss will come in the form of time, money, effort, etc. that you have devoted to this idea.
	The amount will need to be written off as a bad investment, expect no return.
Social loss.
	Friends, assosciates and family relations who are still caught in that way of thinking will regard you as an outsider.
	They may hate you or just cut you off from any form of relation, they might tolerate you.
	People who are trapped in that way of thinking will no longer be your friend.
	I remember going to a prayer meeting where I was prayed at.
	This was really annoying to hear this guy talk to God about me when I was several feet away.
	You will need new friends.





