milton friedman vs bernie sanders on government subsidy of medicine.

Question.
Is any government support for medicine good?

Restricted support - the government pays some of the cost for some of the people.
Some medicines will be subsidized others wont be.
The definition of what is a medicine and what gets a subsidy and how much becomes a point of political debate.
Some people will be subsidized others wont be.
Who is eligible for a subsidy and who is not will be a subject of political debate.
Where is the line being drawn?
1) The 'rich' can afford to pay for themselves so they get no subsidy.
What is the definition of 'rich'?
Is it based on last years tax return?
This year they may be broke, what then?
Do they go without and risk not treating a malady early?
2) All those who do not have private health insurance.
What about those that think they have private insurance but effectively do not? Insurance companies are the most trustworthy of organisations.
What about those who will deliberately not get private health insurance to get ahead of those who are paying premiums?

Unrestricted support.
Total unrestricted support (everyone and everything) will not be affordable to a governments budget.
Two options -
1) All medicines are covered.
You do not escape the problem of defining what is a medicine.

Choosing what medicines receive a subsidy.
There will have to be an organisation chosen by the government to select what get the subsidies and what don't.
There will be all sorts of manufacturers with all sorts of products claiming the subsidy.
Who appoints or influences this body?
This body will be influenced by those who want access to the subsidy.
You may restrict membership of this body to people with advanced medical degrees to 'ensure' they know what they are doing
but these people will be courted by those who wish access to the subsidy.
Access to the subsidy is what will make the product successful or not.
Those who try to influence these people need no other motive for doing this.
Another side effect is in keeping the unwanted out the administration costs will increase.
This is a lesser effect the greater effect will be this is a tool to keep competitors out.

Choosing who gets subsidies?
In restricting subsidy to some but not others will require rules.
If those rules are created by the government then the government will bear the administration cost,
the responsibility for the rules

The Rules - static or dynamic?
Written rules are static in that they do not change with regard to anything about what they are applied to.
A jugde or a commitee of people who decide can be dynamic in that they can change.
Note: this is not about perfectly static or dynamic - written rules can be changed, people's decisions might be consistent with previous decisions.
Advantages of Static rules.
*) Applicants can know what is required.
*)
Disadvantages of Static rules
*) They are predictable. People who shouldn't be approved can work around the laws.
*) They are difficult to change.
*) They do not adapt quickly to changing circumstances.
Advantages of Dynamic rules.
*) Can be changed quickly.
Disadvantages of Dynamic rules.
*) Applicants can not know everything that is required.
	Example: someone whose name is Fred will always be rejected.
*) People who make the decision will be influenced by those who wish to sell a product.





