Minimum Wage Laws

Example:
"A worker must be paid at least $15 per hour."

Purpose of Law:
1) Penalize exploiters who take advantage of vulnerable and desperate people.
2) Uphold the value of a person's work.
3) Guaranteeing a person is not exploited.
4) I don't care about others, I can collect votes by proposing it.
and many others by many different people.

Exemptions from the law (businesses getting what they want without breaking the law):
1) Family businesses.
2) Training wages.
	The person is not yet competant (their work is not yet worth the minimum wage).
3) Anybody being offered more than the minimum wage (by definition).

Assumptions of such laws:
1) All work is of equal value.
	It is not.
	Produce something that people want and you will be able to trade it.
	Produce something that people do not want and you will not.
2) All work takes different people the same amount of time.
	It does not.
	E.g. Someone can perform the same work in 15 minutes that another takes 3 hours.
3) Work costs all people the same amount.
	It does not.
	E.g. If you have a university degree and a 2 hour commute by your own car then it will cost you a lot more
	than someone uneducated who lives nearby.

Why are 'Minimum Wage' laws bad?
1) They promote the idea that money = time.
	It does not.
	The 'Poor' as in money poor will sell their time for money.
	The 'Rich' as in money rich will trade money for more time.
	Which is more valuable?
	Money is a made up idea by Man.
	Time is man's understanding of how the universe works.
	You can get more money but you can never get more time.
	Time once spent is gone forever.
	You'll never get more of it, you'll never get it back.
	Which is wiser?
	To spend a renewable (money) or a nonrenewable (time)?

Why do people promote Minimum Wage Laws?
1) Pretending to do Good.
	It is said that it is evil to seek a good reputation without seeking good.
	It is certainly easier to say you will do something than to do it.
	Such laws pretend to do good without doing good.
2) Some costs are hard to count.
	When a cost is difficult to count it is not in the interest of the promoter of such a thing to work to find it out.
	It is far easier not to count the cost and dismiss it as zero.
	Proponents of such laws ignore some costs, everything needs to be counted or it is not effective as a cost-benefit analysis. 


Why the poor tend to vote conservative when they do vote?













