self improvement
Involves two things: 
1) Set yourself a challenge.
2) Get it done.

Non helpers on the path.
There are people who will not help you get to the end.
There are two main areas where people will not help you.
1) People who are slack or lazy these people will not give you motivation to continue when the times get tough.
2) People who oppose you from even trying.
Note these well.
1) These areas are not mutually exclusive.
	Some people want to oppose you because they are lazy.
2) Both groups should be told then be cut off from relationship.
	What to tell them is different for each person but the cut off from relationship is the same.

Dealing with people who oppose you from self improvement (whether they are or are not lazy).
This applies to all people who do not speak truthfully to you but use sarcasm or reverse psychology.
They are toxic, they are holding you back, they are not your friend.
What to tell them:
	"I desire to be a better person, you oppose this. Bye." - Note: not 'Good Bye', they are not good.
Nice, simple, to the point.
Do not give this person any further chances or opportunities to manipulate you, they have already used their chance.

Dealing with well intentioned lazy people.
They may agree with your desire to improve yourself.
They may even agree with the method you have chosen.
BUT
They have either no desire to put in any effort or they will only put in a half hearted effort.
What to tell them:
	"I desire to be a better person, you seem to agree, but you don't seem to put in what it takes to get the result."
What to do:
	Don't listen to words, look for action.
	If they ask for help then set them some challenges.
	You must be stubborn about this.
	Action counts, ignore words.
	In the end they will put in the effort or they wont.
	If they wont then it is time to say good bye.
Why tell them anything?
	1) For you:
		i)	it will stiffen your resolve.
				You have declared yourself to them. It will be harder to back down.
		11)	it will solidify your memory of your decision.
				There will be an extra piece in your mind that you will find easier to locate telling you that is why I did that.
				You do not want to be haunted by possibilities.
		iii)	they will give you increased respect.
				They will not be able to blame you or hold you in some sort of badness.
				'This is an honest and straight forward person'.
		iv)	you will later be able to reconcile if circumstances bring you together.
	2) For them:
		i)	it gives them a chance to realize their error and to learn from it.
		ii)	it makes it harder for them to keep deluding themselves.
		iii)	they will know the reason for your departure.
Don't tell them anything and leave then you will not have ANY of those benefits.



