
Sucker

Heard the saying "There is a sucker in every room of people, if you can't identify the sucker then the sucker is you."
This gets ignored by the people it may be pointing at.
Your ego will prevent you from thinking that you are the sucker.
If you think this statement is true and you can't identify the sucker then you will think your in a room of assholes and want to leave.
BUT
There is a pretend way.
You can pretend this statement is not true, that there is no sucker.
Such a person is really a sucker and they do not realise it.

What do people who recognize that another person is the sucker do in such situations?
	Firstly, protect themselves.
		They are glad they are not the sucker.
		They are glad someone else has been chosen or effectively chosen themselves for that dishonour.
		They will do nothing that makes it possible or likely that they could be in that position.

	Secondly, depends on social ability and morality.
		Low or normal social ability:
			Keep themselves from becoming the sucker.
			Low Morality:
				"Better her than me"
				Keep the sucker focus active and not on them.
			High Morality:
				Decide what is to be gained from this group and leave it for something better.
			Normal Morality:
				Avoid the sucker.
		High social ability:
			Low Morality: 
				Enjoy the power to control and inflict injury upon the sucker without the sucker even knowing.
			High Morality:
				Several possibilities:
					1) Protect the sucker.
					2) Attempt to break the suckers delusion.
					3) Sympathise but effectively do nothing.
				1 and 2 will lead to challenge and a fight with other high social people.
				1 is an attempt at honor grabbing, condescending to the sucker and will be seen as contemptible so usually won't be done.
				2 is the best but requires much to be effective.
				3 is the normal response.

How to check if your the sucker?
	1) Do people talk about you but not to you?
		If they do this in front of you, then you are definitely the sucker.
	2) Nobody asks you your view on anything.
		It is normal to not bother with other people's opinions but if they think your the sucker then they take
			this to a whole new level.
		Many ask someone else's opinion on something not because they are interested in other's opinions but as a
			platform to launch their own opinion, they do not do this with one who they think is the sucker.
	3) Sarcastic statements
		They talk to you as if you are stupid and they deliberately say false or wrong things just to see how you will react.
		It is important to note here that if you are deluded you will ignore the sarcasm and even try to correct them.

What to do if you realize your the sucker?














