suicide

why do people kill themselves?

Suspect main reason is people do not feel life can or will get better.
1) Medical suicide.
People suffering continual pain may seek to end it permanently.
Example: cancer sufferers.

2) Accidental suicide.
Suicide is not intended but occurs as the people push themselves close to the boundary and misjudge.
Types:
	a) Pretend suicide that is people who threaten to commit suicide to bring some attention to their plight.
	b) Drug overdose -
	c) Drug Influenced.
		When the brain is not working properly an act of self harm is done.

3) Guilty Suicide.
Some one who has commited an evil action, is found out and refuses to face the consequences.
Example: Herman Goering.

4) Unsolvable problem suicide.
Something is wrong in someones life and they cannot fix it nor do they think anyone else will fix it.

5) unfounded belief suicide.
People who believe in an after life and this world is not worth the effort.
Example: The Californian cult that taught you could join the enlightened on comet Hale-Bopp by killing yourself.

6) Unexplained suicide.
Rather than simply call the person crazy admit you don't yet know and keep searching.

Stopping suicide.

There are some general ideas that help.
1) Having a life purpose.
2) Having the belief that life is not fair but with perseverance a better life can be obtained.

Next the types need to be looked at one at a time.
1) Medical suicide.
Better treatments, cures and pain killers.
Some think euthanasia is OK and people can decide when to call it quits.
Note: no one has ever cured old age.
2) Accidental suicide.
Don't do dangerous or self destructive things.
A life purpose and a decent cost-benefit analysis with risk considered will help here.
3) Guilty Suicide.
Don't commit evil.
Don't try to profit at others expense.
4) Unsolvable problem suicide.
This one is trickier.

What you can do for yourself.

What you can do for others.
5) unfounded belief suicide.
Test beliefs to understand what you are believing and why.

Preventing Suicide
It needs to be done on the reason for living side otherwise the person is going to resist you.
The last thing a potential suicider will want is the last piece of control over their life to
be taken away.
