Tax Reform

There are several fundamentals of human life some of these are:
  The requirement, need, drive to be part of and contribute to society.
    In modern society tax is a way to contribute.

In ancient times tax was simply a matter of the strong taking what they wanted and there were no
services provided.

Problems of Tax
  Money is taken unequally.
    Some get exemptions others don't.
  Money is given out corruptly.
    Some get subsidies others don't.

Removal of Exemptions
Will be opposed by all those who benefit from the exemption.
Will be opposed by those who get to select what is exempted and what is not.
  They will be influenced. The exemption is a direct incentive to influence them.
Will be opposed by accountants in general as the more complicated the system the more people will
yield and give them money to sort it out.
The more exemptions are removed the more equitable will be the tax contribution.
There will be no more arguments of "I am using my wealth responsibly therefore I deserve a tax exemption".
The whole idea is more money for me, let those who are not me pay all the tax.
If politicians cannot award tax exemptions there will be no incentive to bribe them for this reason.

If you reduce taxes without removing exemptions there will not be enough money to do anything.
If you remove exemptions without reducing taxes you will simply have no allies, those who lose the exemptions
will oppose you vociferously and no one has any incentive to support you.

This points to the big problem with this.
Luke warm support from those who will benefit, the majority.
Determined opposition from those who would lose.
Milton Friedman points it out.
There are two groups who are fundamentally opposed to this.
The politicians, they who decide what is and is not exempt.
  What activities get a rebate or subsidy.
  Without this power there would be no need for businesses to influence them.
  Therefore no reason to give them money.
Business owners.
  A business is judged by how profitable it is.
  The more profitable the better.
  The less tax they pay, the more subsidies they collect, the more profitable.
  If you can change the laws such that others pay more tax and you less then that is what is
  you do to make the business more profitable.
