The two types of Religious Fraudster

1) Those who initially believe
  Whether it is emotional need or a desire to know when they do not these people place a trust in the one who sells the religion.
  They believe it and devote their lives to it.
  Their sincerity means they will gain converts and rise in the ranks of the priesthood.
  If they retain this delusion they will be as described later but many don't.
  They wake up and realize that the religious business is about selling falsehood.
  After devoting much of their life to believing what is false they can either:
    1) Force themselves to continue to believe it.
      This is the path of self delusion.
    2) Not believe it themselves but continue to profit from persuading others.
      After all you are in the business.
      You have invested a lot and you will lose it if you reject it.
      These are one of the types of fraudster.
      They know it is false but promote it anyway.
      An example of this is Mother Theresa who admitted their was a silence from God for her but
      still wanted others to have some sort of hope.
    3) Reject it. Not believe it and do not promote it.
      This comes at the price of the realization that they have fallen for a con and have wasted much of their life
      aiding an organization that is false.
      Most people will not admit publically that they were wrong about a specific thing and will not do this but some do.
      Ex-evangelist Charles Templeton is one who did.

2) Those who enter the religious organization thinking it is a scam.
  They begin as frauds.
  They don't believe it but promote it.
  These people either find others to deceive or will not get promoted and then they will lose interest.
  The problem here is people want to think of themselves as a good person and certainly want others to think of themselves as a good person.
  At this point they choose a path:
  1) Continue as a fraud.
    Someone who knows they are promoting something they do not believe.
