The two ways of speaking.

1) To articulate truth.
Saying what you believe.
It might not match reality but it is your attempt to communicate your perception of it.
A note needs to be made articulated truth is communicating what you believe, this may or may not have anything to do with reality.

2) To effect others.
You speak according to what effect you want to achieve.
What you believe here is irrelevant.
What reality is like is irrelevant.
The purpose is to control others.
Sounds evil, well yes but most people do it most of the time.

Naive good people articulate truth but do not accept that most people speak to effect others.
	They think that a small number of people are liars.
	This self deception includes that they themselves do not tell lies or speak to effect others but they do.

Bad people don't want people to see what they really think.

"Evil will win over Good because Good is dumb." Dark Helmet in Spaceballs.
Evil will win over naive good.
Unless naive good has a marked the person as one of the liars they will not understand until too late or bitter experience has taught them.
This is like getting a free punch, the receiver may be knocked out before giving any reply.

There are some naive bad people who do not see any benefit in saying what you believe.

Where and how did it all start?
Effect others.
	As a baby you would have worked out the noise you make causes your mother to do things.
	If you are hungry you can cry and your mother will bring you food.
	This is communicating purely to effect others.
	Your parents will punish you for telling lies and with holding the truth.
Articulate truth.
	The facts or the truth is required to make the decision, the more accurate the information the better the decision.
	Decisions need to be made correctly.
	If they are not you may suffer harm.
	This is communicating to articulate truth.
Why preference one over the other? Why not use both?
	The use of both is the better way.
	Preferencing Effect Others.
		This is very common and always done by swindlers, fraudsters and liars.
		This begins with 'I am better than you' mentality.
		You can win the gold medal if others fall over.
		You can be first if others 'shoot themselves in the foot'.
		Problems with this:
			Others may make a bad decision that harms you.
	Preferencing Articulated Truth.
		At first this may seem rarer but it is not.
		It is done by people who see the benefit of others knowing the truth
			(making better decisions that will effect them) while forgetting the benefit of speaking for effect.
		This is encouraged by religious leaders and deceivers who gain power over these people.


Examples of types of speaking.
Articulated truth:
	Academic peer review.
		One person presents their truth of a matter.
		Others question it with their truth.
		From this process a superior product is to emerge or an inferior one to be discarded.

Bad People
	Donald Trump speaks to effect others and sees no need to articulate truth or be consistent with what he previously said.
	Adolph Hitler spoke to effect others not to give others the truth.
