theism_atheismVSgnosticism_agnosticism

theism vs atheism
Is a BELIEF claim.
Do you believe in God?

Gnosticism vs agnosticism
Is a KNOWLEDGE claim.
Do you know God?

They are different questions, different ideas, different concepts.
Can they be compressed to a simple one dimensional idea?
No.
Let us look at the definitions and how they relate to each other a little closer.

Theism - belief in some god.
Athiest - not believing in any god.
	This definition of athiest is a bit different from what many suppose it is.
	Some hold that athiest means believing that there is no god.
	This is different.
	It moves the negation from 'belief' to 'god'.
	But isn't the negation on the 'god' part?
	Athiest comes from the ancient Greek - 'a' without and 'theos' god.
	That is not how athiests see themselves.
	Evidence Matt Dillahunty.
		"We are not saying God is or is not we are refuting your claim as not having any basis."

Gnostic - one who has knowledge.
Agnostic - one who does not have knowledge.

One can see that gnosticism has no noun.
One can be gnostic with respect to one thing and agnostic with respect to another without contradiction.

Though for the remainder of the discussion lets restrict our knowledge to be about whether God exists.
There are 4 positions here:

Theist_Gnostic,
Theist_Agnostic,
Atheist_Gnostic,
Athiest_Agnostic.

The question to be asked is - how do you know?
Athiest_Gnostic - You don't believe God exists and you know God does not exist.
	How can you know that something does not exist?
	Certainly you must know everything that is and that thing cannot be among them.
	You do not know everything.
	This position is not tenable to hold (and I know no-one who does) but it is argued against.
Thiest-Agnostic - You believe that God exists but you do not know God exists.
	This is a seemingly absurd approach but many hold such things.
	They believe in a higher power but do not know that higher power or how it relates to them.
	Again best approach - ask how do you know?
	Subject - exactly what do they believe and why.
Theist-Gnostic - They believe God exists and claim to know this.
	How do they know?
	Ask them.
	I have never heard a decent or compelling answer to this.
	When they don't know and don't want to admit it making them look foolish they try:
		1) Evasion
		2) Appeal to personal revelation
	More detail on these approaches come later.
Athiest-Agnostic - Don't believe in God and do not know God.
	If you don't know it then don't say it.

More than 4 standard positions?
Definitely.
Theism, Deism and different religions.
	What is believed about God?
	Deism - God started the universe, or God is the universe but God does not care about us.
	Theism - God created the universe and God cares for us.
	Each religion has a different belief about the supernatural/spiritual.
Atheism - assertive or not assertive.
	Assertive - There is no God.
		This is open to the question of how one can know something does not exist.
	Non-assertive - There is no evidence to believe in a God.
		This is where most athiests will be.
Gnosticism - what do they know? How?
Agnosticism - Weak or strong.
	Weak - "you have no proof therefore I am not required to accept it."
		Claim what you will but I have my own opinion.
	Strong - If you make the claim tell me how you know.







