tough love

most people do false love or tough but not tough love.

Love.
You are worthwhile, important, valuable.

Tough.
This is reality. Deal with it.

Tough Love.
You are worthwhile, important, valuable.
This is reality. Deal with it.

Some people may think these are opposites, they are not.

Weak or Cowardly Love says you are worthwhile as a person but does not point out the truth.
Tough points out the truth but does not care for the individual.
	Many delude themselves into thinking they are giving tough love when they are only giving tough.
It is common to alternate between weak love and tough with the giver thinking they are giving tough love.
Really?
What is the difference between tough love and rapidly switching between weak love and tough?
Don't you connect the sentences with an and?

The difference between tough love and rapid switching.
Rapid switching does not convey both messages at the same time.
This leaves the listener somewhat confused, you are saying one thing at one moment then another thing at another.
The normal practice in this situation is to choose one of the meanings and ignore the other.
Tough love communicates both ideas, love and truth.

Why do people give weak love?
It is easier to think you are doing good than to do it.
It is easier to say something nice than to help them.
People would like to get the reward/respect for being good without putting in the effort of being good.

Why just tough not tough love?
The truth has to be dealt with.
Tough love requires extra effort that goes to some else.
There is pride in being able to say you are superior to someone else.

Tough love - How?
Giving tough love is not easy.
Tough love needs to be persistent.
It may mean giving up respect from the other person.
It may mean wanting the best for the other person instead of wanting to be better than the other person.

Recovery Part 1 Turning Weak love into Tough love.

Recovery Part 2 Turning Tough into Tough love.

Recovery Part 3 Turning Back and forth weak love and tough into Tough love.





