truth vs tact

Not saying the truth is not the same as saying something that is false, it can be simply keeping quiet.
I do not believe truth and tact are mutually exclusive.
People need to deal with the truth, often they do not want the truth and sometimes they will get violent to those who give them the truth.

You can be truthful and tactful.
	This is the best.

You can be tactful but not truthful.
	This can be OK if:
		*) your tact does not reinforce a falsehood.
		*) the truth you are not saying is not of major importance.
		*) the 'truth' you are not saying now, will be said by someone soon.
		*) you think they will act violently if you say the truth to them.
	It is easy to justify this wrongly.
	It is the cowards way to be 'nice' but not give them the truth they may need (but not like).

You can be truthful but not tactful:
	You will inherit displeasure and probably not make any gain for the truth.
	Any 'truth' you speak may be ignored when the listener thinks your being insulting.

You can be neither truthful or tactful:
	This is just dumb. Fuck Off.

How can truth and tact be combined?
1) Ask questions rather than make statements.
	You might be wrong.
	The point is to think things through.
2) Do not seek a victory over them.
	It is hard to deal with an uncomfortable truth without also having to fight an ego battle.
	Say it then let them think about it.
	If they win or lose an argument with you they probably will not think about what you have said.
	If an argument seems looming say something unrelated, take the conversation in an unexpected direction.
	Example:
		Someone says that "God created the world in 7 days" in conversation.
		Do not be tempted to say "I suppose God didn't let the dinosaurs on the ark"
			or "on the eighth day he created mosquitoes because he knew Man would suck".
			The result will be from them a defensive response.
		A better thing to say would be "some people believe that by drinking water you can cure disease".
			Which is unrelated but still making the point of having a realistic basis for our beliefs.

The more others are listening to the conversation the more important truth is over tact.






