
*) You cannot make the fool wise or the thief moral by imposing law.
*) There was enough energy falling on the earth from the sun to evolve you to this point.
*) Using the carrot and stick (reward and punishment) method may be useful for donkeys (animals and small children) but
not for humans. Humans will be annoyed if you treat them this way.
*) I am not calling you a liar but there is a discrepancy between what you say and reality.
*) Using financial incentives to motivate the financially irresponsible will not work.
*) If your self worth is linked to what people say to you then they can easily bend you to their will if they find out.
Self worth needs to be:
1) Independant of others. You will a slave to others.
2) Independant of success. How will you deal with failure?
3) Independant of pleasure or pain. You will be a slave to them.
4) Not based on injuring others. You must be evil.
Without self worth you will be unmotivated to do anything and might wish for death.
What can be a base or source of self worth?

Pleasure

Bertrand Russel (NEED REFS);
*) If the rulers spent their resources on improvement rather than just getting on top this world would be a paradise.
*) The next best thing than pleasure for ourselves is denying others pleasure.
*) It is the madness of humanity to mine gold from the earth, transport it then re-bury it in banks. Eg. mined in South Africa
then deposited in European banks. (May be old way as governments wanting money have sold it off)

What can I do?

What can I do for you?

My thought drips away, sometimes things seem so profound. Other times I cannot remember them.

The thing that is worse than making a mistake is not attempting.

->Let God be true and every man a liar.
<-You are a man.
->The bible is the word of God.
<-The bible was written by men.
->The bible was written by men inspired by God.
<-What does 'inspired by God' mean?
	How were they 'inspired by God'?
	How do you know they were 'inspired by God'?
	How can I know they were 'inspired by God'?

What about women?
This is ancient language.
The masculine usually refers to all humanity or any person in the singular.

HOW DO I KNOW?

I am not saying Christianity is bunk but where is evidence?
What difference is there between a christian and a non-christian?
Proof! You demand I prove, I can hardly prove a single thing.
I am agnostic.
When it comes to things like ghosts, demons and space aliens,
I neither assert that they exist or they don't exist.
Is it not honest of me to say 'I have not experienced such things'.

