What is wrong with religion?

Religion mixes bad thinking with social control.

What is social control?

Is friendship a need?
Is there pressure to fit in?
Is there desire to be respected by others?

The success of religion is not in its beautifil and logical arguments but in its appeal for people to want to be wanted.
My Life is Significant.
You want to believe that, OK, I'll package up something and sell it to you.
You must subscribe to this to be a part of the community.
If you don't hold to this you are an infidel, an outsider, an enemy.

Quote from 'Ghost Busters':
"If there's a pay check in it I'll believe in anything."

From Ex-Mormons in Bill Maher's 'Religulous':
'The instant you believe something is not right with the message of the founder then you have committed social suicide.'
(This quote is not exact, fix and reference who said it).


Religion and Bad Thinking.

How do we know if something is true?
In religion a person or a text written by a person defines what is true.
But don't people lie?
Yes and in writing.
So how do we know if a claim is correct?
These claims cannot be tested.
They are something that cannot be shown or demonstrated.
Examples God, what God did in the past, life after death.
This means the claims are unfalsifiable.
You cannot know if they are true independant of your own belief.
Is there any way we can know?

Now, religion makes its appeal to revelation.
That is God shows you that it is true.
This is where it gets vague.
How does God show you?
A voice in the head?
A dream?
A sense of perfection in the order of the universe?
Or just a pleasant feeling?

We can deceive ourselves.
Did God really talk to us or did we just make it up?

Why should we make up something and pretend to believe it?
We should know that it is baseless and not believe it.
If we want something to be true we can pretend that it is true.
This is a bad thing to do as we lose our ability to determine truth in doing so.
Combining it with social pressure, where saying elsewise is going to cost me.
It becomes far easier to say that it is true.
Once that step is taken (saying it is true) it is only another small step to believing it.
The difference between what one says and what one does enables liars to be spotted.
If you believe it you will not be caught out as a liar.











