Where it went wrong.

Steps of growth from Stephen Bidulph 'Manhood'
1) Mother - Start here when you are born, without this step being done by someone you will die.
2) Father - Teaches you how to be a man.
3) Mentor (also apprenticeships) - Takes someone who is interested and through discipline and practice refines them
into someone who is competant in their field.
4) Independent - Someone who is professional, can fully operate in society without any need for their parents help.
The goal here is independence and specific individuals are not required.
What is required to progress is to learn what is needed at each step.

Mentors do not want to take people who have not 'grown up'.
Like most investors they have finite resources and will focus on those most likely to succeed.

To be rejected by your father means you need to learn for yourself.
You will have no-one pushing you to progress, no-one showing you a good example.
A bad example is not sufficient because no-one is pushing you.

Can your mother substitute?
Yes, but what is required is a strong and wise woman.
A woman who understands what is needed for a good future and lives accordingly will work.
Where the father is dead or known to be absent people will work around the issue and often the child will be OK.
The problem usually comes when the father is present but refuses to help the child or just doesn't know himself.
This leaves the mother to do it, which she shouldn't have to and may be unaware of the lack.
It is further difficult for the mother as she is impelled biologically to be the mother not the father as well at the same time.

Can the child fix themselves up?
Only if the child understands that they have to do it themselves.
Example Robert Holmes ACourt - Australian Story ABC.
Robert was left at a train station for boarding school and thought "right, I've got to do everything myself".
He worked out he had to do it himself.
Mostly the child will not realize.
Indeed the child can be prevented from realizing.
If the mother is bad (for the child) or emotionally needy then she can keep the child dependent.

An indifferent father and a needy mother is a recipe for disaster for the child.
Not learning the things you should learn from your father has bad consequences.
If male the will not acquire a mentor and their progress will stop.
If female they will have 'daddy issues'.
