Why Law Fails.

The problems of society stem from people believing false things and people saying false things.
Interesting, now show it to be true.

Another way of putting it trouble is caused by foolishness and unethicalness.

But, if people don't believe false things it does not matter what people say.
This is so yet we do not know everything (cannot determine whether all things are true or false)
and do not have certainty on anything (cannot be sure).
Some of the information we use to make decisions comes from what other people say.

To put it another way:
To believe false things is foolish.
To say false things is unethical.

So, what is required?
To turn people from:
foolish->wise
unethical->ethical

What does stated law do?
Punishes people who do specific things.

Does stated law do what is required?
foolish->wise
what may be deducible from stated law is that some things are bad.
However,
1) Someone states it, you may not agree with them.
2) It does not explain why only do not do this or punishment.
foolish->wise is not done by law.
It may occur in the process but law doesn't either require it or imply it.

unethical->ethical
There is nothing stopping a because I was not caught it's Ok or it's not Ok only because I was caught response.
Law does not make people ethical.
Example: Prohibition against theft has been around for a very long time but people still steal.

If Law doesn't solve the problems why is it there?
Law has two aspects one bad and one good.
The Bad.
Law is an act of force.
The influential can say don't do this.
This is their will exerted on you and the rest of society.
The Good.
Law shows you what society wants.
If you don't know what is wrong or what to do then Law will say this is wrong.
It takes wisdom to see the why.
Law does not say what is right.
What makes a law good?
Does the law make life better?
Does it represent one view or is it seen as a general truth?

1) Purpose or intention is good.
2) Practice is good. It has to make things better, not just say something is bad.
Both of these are needed to be able to explain why a law is the way it is.
If one is missing then the law is open to being disregarded.
Who says? It doesn't work.

Thinking leads to behaviour, behaviour leads to consequences.
Interesting idea, now show it to be true.

Thinking leads to behaviour.
1) You cannot do anything without brain activity.
2) What you do is behaviour.
3) Your body does what your head tells it.

Ok, so this 'thinking' involves all of brain function not just conscious thought.
Example:
	Your heart beats (an action) without you consciously thinking about it.
Yes.
So how does conscious thinking change brain function?
Bueller? Neuro-scientists? Bueller?



