Why the poor are poor?

Maybe you have heard that the rich attain investments the poor don't or as Robert Kiyosaki says
"the rich buy assets and the middle class buy liabilities and the poor spend for the now."
This is not untrue but not the full picture.
Questions need to be asked, beginning with, why?
The poor and the middle class are buying things to make themselves feel better.
Those who would be wealthy know the falsehood of this.
The poor mostly to make the pain go away.
The middle class dream of a beautiful life and a pleasant future.

Where do these false beliefs come from?
SPECULATION:
These people are addicted to a dopamine hit.
They are pretending that they are moving forward when they are not.
As long as they get the dopamine hit, they think it doesn't matter what they do.
The hard work of analysis and review is never done.
Their job ends with the pay check and the pay check is the dopamine hit.

Who promotes these false beliefs?
There is an old adage "a fool and his money are soon parted".
This is the modus operandi (method of operation) of most bad people.
Taking advantage of fools is an ancient habit.
After all if you are not going to use your brain properly you can give me your money.

Why aren't people protected from these bad people?
1) People who are already dupes cannot protect anyone.
2) People who are victim of committing one folly can easily be shown to be hypocritical.
These people will avoid exposure and say nothing.

For those who the above do not apply consider what motive is there to do this?
They need to take the side of the weak against the strong.
Those who cannot reward you against those who can.
Large risk little return.
These are the sort of investments that are avoided.

It gets worse...
Most bad advice comes not from people who are deliberately profiting from others folly but from people who don't know any better.

But why don't the poor listen and pick themselves up?
They are continually offered things that if true mean they don't have to put effort in.
They don't find out if they are true because they are kept busy thinking about other things.

What can the poor do?
You need to liberate your thinking.
Stop listening to people who are telling you what to believe.
Reduce spending time on profitless activities.
