Good writing has several main points:
	Precise.
	Concise.
	Memorable.

Many things are annoying to a reader.

*) Words such as should or ought imply a moral view with which the reader may not agree.

*) Weasel words such as 'could' or 'maybe' indicate you either do not know what you are writing about
or you lack the confidence in it.

*) 'Must' either applies to the laws of physics or it is my attempt to impose either my will or
my world view upon you. Whichever it shows something to be written better.

*) 'Should' or 'ought' raise the question of why? Do not use these unless the answer is immediately
obvious from the text.

*) Do not number the points being made because you are either subtlely insulting the reader that
they cannot count or you are declaring that is the limit of the aspect with nothing further to
be said.

*) If the introduction or preface tells how to read the book then the book is not well written.

*) Do not reference own arguments or works.
This can be done but is dangerous.
If not careful a circular argument can easily be built up.
The studious reader has to now evaluate another argument while working out this one, this may be too much and they will give up.

Is it interesting to the reader?
Will it be remembered?
Stories and imagery will be remembered much longer than simple declaratives no matter how true and precise.
EG. from Joel Spolsky.
Story - Officer cleaning toilet vs Good leaders lead by example.
Imagery - Sales and Marketing is like two men cleaning the inside of an alligator with a rope.
	Marketing is feeding the rope in at one end, sales is pulling the rope from the other end.

How to overcome the desire to believe what is wished to be true and to accept what is true???
Eg. Brian Cox, English professor of physics. Ref needed, interview with Adam Hills.
Brian Cox (some time ago, in a rock band) sang "things are gonna get better".
Brian Cox (later as professor of physics) said that is not true, the second law of thermodynamics prevents it.
	Instead life is more likely to become shitter.
Which will you (or your readers) prefer to believe?

Good writing is like a walk in the forest.
Bad writing a walk in the sewer.

Analogies and metaphors.
There are two groups of people that analogies and metaphors should not be given.
1) Stupid people.
I am not talking about people who are slow to understand or who struggle to understand you or simply disagree with you,
but those who cannot understand the concept.

2) Antagonistic people.
People who deliberately misconstrue what you intend, to lead you into saying something you don't want to.
This will lead you to spend time and effort to defend the metaphor, abandon it or worse the meaning of what you are saying will be changed.

In either case the rhythym of what you say will be broken.
There is a third group which needs to be considered.
3) Lazy thinkers.
This group is quite common, it is the normal way people think.
If you use a word, image, metaphor etc. where I do not understand what you intend then I will make up the meaning.
This doesn't break rhythym, it does change the meaning.
What you write does not cause me to think.
If I agree then my agreement does not mean much.
I agree with myself.
If there is a discontinuity or jar that causes me to think or to see a contradiction in what I've interpreted you to say then
I will think this is bad writing.

Since these people are amongst the potential audience of any published work your use of them needs to be extremely restricted.
Analogies and metaphors need to be simple, hard to shift the meaning.
Often there will simply be a better way to communicate it, seek!

The reader's thinking is important.
If you have too many things for the reader to think about they will get annoyed and think it is bad writing.
For some people, one thing is too many things too think about, they already know the answer.
You will not be able to make these people better in any way, they will agree with what you propose or they will think your writing is bad.
Do not concern yourself with trying to win these people.
The only possible benefit these people can give is to show where you might be wrong, the average or below person will not even do that.

Developing rhythm.
Now I will describe items in your writing that make the reader think as 'bumps'.
Remove all unnecessary 'bumps' they will break rhythym.
	Some unnecessary bumps are:
		spelling errors.
		grammatical errors.

Put the 'bumps' where you want the reader to think.

Rhythm and argument flow.








