stuff 2

Use right image that carries the argument.

*) "Purify my thinking" - purify not crystallize.
When I think of purify, I think of unclean water being made clean.
Crystal though transparent is brittle and rigid, not a good image for critical thinking.


"Who are you?"
"An observer."

Do people acknowledge their errors?
Can we fix errors?

Diagnosis of a disease.
In the early stages a disease is difficult to diagnose but easy to cure.
In later stages a disease is easy to diagnose but difficult to cure.


Competition Vs. Co-operation
Competition.
	Advantages:
		People strive for the best.
		People do not get rewarded for laziness.
	Disadvantages:
		People sabotage, fight and seek to ruin each other.

Co-operation.
	Advantages:
		People work together.
	Disadvantages:
		People content with other people putting in the effort.


Write

Saying something is just opinion till it is backed up.
Saying something without reason will be ignored or contradicted without evidence.
"No it's not".
Something asserted without evidence can be denied without evidence.

Wanted hope, wasted life.
(seen of group of poker/slot machines and players).

Anecdote vs Evidence.
The beginning of Writing contains a story or a question to be answered to engage the reader.
Once the reader is engaged the the reason for reading is either:
1) For entertainment.
2) For information.
This is a spectrum.
Some read only for entertainment.
Some read only for information.
Many read for a bit of both.
Some read for a lot of both.
The writer needs to empathize with the reader and answer the question "Why should I read this?".
Curiousity must be established early on.
Is this going to be interesting or worth my time?

This brings up a problem.
If the person doesn't find it interesting they will read no further.
If they read no further any statement can be denied without evidence, they have not read the evidence.
The normal way science writing is done is to say the aim then to prove it.
If one rejects you or the aim or simply finds it boring one can stop reading and deny it without evidence.
Someone who seeks an answer or to grow in knowledge may put up with the effort it takes to read.
They may do this if:
They want to answer a question that the summary implies there is an answer to.
A person they respect has recommended the writing as worth the time.





