elections

Brexit
Leave or Remain?
Majority voted to leave.
It was not a huge majority 17m to 16m.

Problem of representational democracy.
You are asked to vote for candidate A, B, C, D, ...
or proposition A, B, C, D ... in a referendum.
Each candidate stands for different things, they are indifferent on some issues.
You can only vote for one.
It does not matter if A has some points you agree with and not others and B has some
different points you agree with.
Your vote does not separate the issues.
Only one is elected, every one else not.
This is further complicated by candidates not required to fulfill any "promises" they made.
One cannot be held guilty of fraud unless there is money involved.
A prosecution is required to hold what someone says accountable.
This means any lies to be publicly exposed the case of how they are false needs to be made.
Things that involve money but are undemonstrable eg. religion, superstition, fortune telling, astrology, etc.
get away with it.

Boris Johnston declined leadership.
Nigel Farage declined leadership.
So why did the leave proponents reject being Prime Minister?
Nigel Farage obviously lied.
Britains economic fall meant there was no money saved from not paying Euro contributions.
Nigel Farage virtually admitted that he had no intention that any extra money was going to the NHS.

Leave voters were pushed under a bus and took the remainder with them.

There are consequences for:
1) Statements of pride.
    People not included hate it.
Quote
	"Lies get half way around the world before the truth gets its pants on."
Clinton will beat Sanders for the democratic nomination as:
1) Clinton got most from states that voted before they knew a viable choice.
Sanders offers a viable choice, without the debates did they know?
2) Clinton is the most famous 
How I would vote if I was an American.
Sanders as democratic candidate, would not care for Republican.
Why Sanders over Clinton.
1) Clinton is known to have told lies.
2) Sanders has stood up for legislation to support poorer Americans.

Australia
Comment "Independant or Green will win any electorate they stand in."
Reason: People are annoyed with both Liberal and Labor.

Reason why this will not happen in this election:
People have inertia, they rarely change their mind or behaviour.
Ask who will you vote for?
What will make your decision?


Smorgasbord of lies.
Which will you eat/believe?

Politician:
"We serve the people. If they want to eat bull shit that is what we will serve them."

Saying "no" to the Don.
What is wrong with Donald Trump and why it would be a disaster for the world if he got into the White House.
*) He has some dumb ideas.
	List examples here.
		Mexican Wall
*) He does not learn.
