Equity

What is equity?
When many people refer to 'equity' they refer to money.
The 'money equity' that is referred to comes in several forms:
1) Equality of the money one has now.
2) Equality of opportunity to earn money in the future.
3) Equality of the increase of the possibility to earn money in the future.

What is the cause of income inequality?
1) People's choice.
2) The Wealthy investing in acquiring more of the increase, while the poorer are not investing in the future.

1) People's choice.
Imagine there are different products that can do something you want.
Eg. a car, a hamburger, etc.
Company 1 offers for sale product A.
Company 2 offers for sale product B.
... and so on.
Product A is better than product B.
Product B is better than product C.
... and so on.
'better' is the value that you ascribe.
Now, which product will you buy?
Everyone is in the market will be making similar decisions.
Most sales will go to company 1.
A small amount of the sales will go to company 2.
An even smaller amount of the total sales will go to companies 3, 4, 5, ... and fraud.
The investors of company 1 will be hugely rewarded.
The investors of company 2 will do OK.
Other investors, sorry, wrong bet.
The workers of company 1 will be given bonuses.
The workers of company 2 will be given words of encouragement.
Workers of other companies will be sacked.
The consumer wants the choice of which product.
Are you going to force the consumer to buy a product they don't really want?
This is a tough reality for socialists to deal with.

2) Investing wealth.
The object of people is to be in a better position than yesterday.
To win at the 'Game of Life'.
Your position that is relative to others is what is judged.
Only the best males get the best females.
Only the best bet gets the investment.
Only the most capable gets the job.
Poor people today have a better absolute standard of living than nobles 1000 years ago.
There are two ways to improve your relative position:
1) Improve yourself.
2) Disable the competition.
While 1 is always admirable it only comes at the cost of personal effort.
2 may or may not require personal effort but it is usually not honorable and requires a certain immorality.
