What has happened to the Democrats?

The Democratic party has been taken over by a wealthy ideology they do not stand up for the little man.
The rejection of Bernie Sanders to Hillary Clinton is evidence of this.
The question is why the Democratic party would choose as its representative a candidate that is seen as a corrupt person over someone who is popular?
We should look at the two candidates and what they proposed.
Clinton was a status quo, do not think, 'I'll take care of this'.
Bernie is a 'there is a problem here, we need to fix it.'
Leaving aside whether Bernie's solutions were right or not, most people are not happy with the way life is going and to say 'trust me'
when there are many successful untrustworthy people is annoying.
Furthermore, to say 'do not think, I'll take care of this' is repulsive.
The Democratic elites choose Clinton and she eventually was chosen by the Democratic party.
This left the working class with a choice vote for a liar (Trump), a crook (Hillary), people who will never win (Johnson and Stein)
or just don't vote at all.
The wealthy had both sides and would not lose the election either way.
It should remind you of George Carlin.
  "You have owners, they own you."
  "There is no choice for things that matter. There are two political parties but over 30 flavors of bagels."

What is the future?
The Democratic Party is likely to win the next presidential election.
Far leftists want no mercy especially for Trump voters but also moderates.
The Elites have power over the Democratic Party.
The Elites are not a friend of the working class but may be influenced by the extreme left.
Therefore policies that may be enacted:
1) Group Identity with its discrimination on the basis of group.
2) Hate speech laws.
These will serve to divide the non elites and keep them confused.
One thing that could be very dangerous is that they force companies like Google, Facebook and YouTube to censor content.
Who will decide what is censored?
Great power is involved in the control of information.
Echo chambers of thought will only be more encompassing if you are censored or denied access to material of differing opinion.
