life is slipping away

Never more have I felt this:
	about to turn 45,
	having a list of accomplishments that is effectively zero long.
		not married,
		no kids,
		never bought a property,
		have not gained proper independence from my parents,
			still living in parents house,
that life is bad.
But now I realize that it is not life that is bad.
It is that I have reacted in ways that meant life rejects me.
Why?
	Blame is all around.
	No-one is innocent.
	Everyone is out for themselves.
		A special note is that they who say they are for the common good are either liars or delusional in addition to being selfish.
	The problem is not seeking your own betterment but putting stumbling blocks for others, keeping others from understanding that would enable
		them to better themselves.
	The problem is taking advantage of fools and foolishness rather than promoting truth and wisdom.
	The social hierarchy manifests the focus of many peoples lives.
	People who are greater in the hierarchy have:
		better and more mates,
		more money,
		better and more friends,
	More money means:
		better houses,
		better education,
		better cars,
	Better friends means:
		better and more contacts for business,
		more feedback. That is warnings when something is not right and encouragement to persist.
	Note: One should be able to see the feedback loop here.
		That is the higher in the social rank you are the more you have to enable you to improve.
		AND
		The lower you are in the social rank you are the more wrong things you will have that prevent you from being better.
	In short they have the best of everything and keep it so.
	So, to better yourself in the hierarchy:
		Do what you can to promote yourself.
		AND
		Do what you can to prevent others from being promoted.
	The first point is noble, the second is not.
	The first way has produced benefit for the whole of humanity.
	The second keeps humanity mired in bad things.
		Bad or profitless ideas, inefficient ways of doing things, 

Where did it go wrong for me?
	Not realizing that I needed to achieve for myself.
	Being kept ignorant by others.
	By allowing myself to believe others.
	By using ease of action to determine what is true.
	To maintain my self worth I made myself a joke to others.
		'Haha, he is funny'.
	To maintain my self worth I made unwise decisions.
		Such decisions as to not choose then pursue a career.
	To avoid pain I became addicted to:
		1) alcohol
		2) video games
	By these I wasted much time with nothing to show for it.
	To gain friendship I was picked up by religion. Protestant Christianity.
		It gave nothing.
		Jesus is your friend.
			Though I called for Him, He never called back.
			Some 'friend'.
			A good friend will tell you when you are going wrong.
			He didn't.

















