my visit to alcoholics anonymous

What aa promises?
If you complete the twelve steps you will be free of alcoholism.

How it worked.
1) We all sit in a circle.
2) We take turns reading from one of the steps written in a book by aa.
Each person reads a paragraph then its the next person.
This takes about 15 minutes.
The reading is a short essay about one of the steps.
3) Self disclosure.
Each person is given some time to tell their story.
Committed members follow this pattern...
"My name is .....
I am an alcoholic."
<their story>
<others thank them by applauding or muttering some agreeable reinforcement>
<next person>
<this repeats till all have spoken or time is running short>
I don't know what they do when a new person is not there.
They would get bored telling and listening to the same story every week.
Though I think the pattern is always there, it seemed automatic.
4) Reading the promise.
One person is selected to read the promise.
The promise is about half a page long, taking about 5 minutes to read aloud.
5) Final Blessing.
We stand in the circle and hold hands.
The leader speaks. I am sure what is spoken is thought of and planned.

How it is like a religion.
1) The steps specifically mention God.
2) The steps say you should let your life be directed by God.
3) The meeting has a strong component of automatic non thinking behaviour of participants.
4) It has a specific set of (they are an an available list) traditions.
5) The social aspect enforces uniformity.
6) It does not encourage thinking.
7) If you are to 'fit in' then you will adopt the mannerisms of the group.
8) You are required to read aloud things that you may not believe in.

How it would pass itself off as non religious.
1) It does not mention any specific religion or written text (other than its own).
No Jesus, no bible.


The Good and the bad of it.
1) It requires you to admit that you have a problem.
This is good.
Denial that there is a problem is a problem and it is the first step.
Without this you can go nowhere.
2) It requires you to say you are powerless.
This is not entirely true.
If it was true then doing the 12 steps would accomplish nothing.
3) It requires you to believe in a benevolent higher power.
Why?
Where is the evidence for this?
Does the higher power exist?
How can you be sure it is benevolent?
Let us say that you are surrounded by bad people who want to pull you down.
Do you need to imagine a friend to push you forward?
4) It mentions alcohol and drinking but nothing else.
Sure there is 'gamblers anonymous' but what about:
	1) Sex addiction.
	2) Porn addiction.
	3) Video game addiction.
	4) Retail therapy being used to avoid problems.
	5) Coffee addiction.
	6) Eating to avoid facing problems.
	7) Eating too much from a sense of accomplishment.
	etc...
Do each of these require its own special help group?











