Attaining Competency

Why be competant?
Without a specific skill to offer others you cannot be professional.
You will only make money by giving other people falsehoods, getting money in exchange for words.
Without making money by giving people something useful in return you will get a reputation as a liar.

How to be competant?
Develop a skill so that others will be impressed.
The majority of people who have not developed that skill to that level will go 'wow'.
Becoming competant will require years of dedicated study.

The 'easy' way to become competant.
This is only 'easy' in the sense that everything is laid out for you and errors will be pointed out.
It is not 'easy' in the sense of not having to put the effort in.
Get an apprenticeship or mentors.
The apprenticeship is more formal than mentors but both will save you lots of pain.
Whether or not you succeed in acquiring a formal apprenticeship you will benefit greatly from learning from someone
who has been there.
Apprenticeships:
Getting an apprenticeship varies in difficulty.
Some apprenticeships (particularly trades) require a sponsor and mentor others (like programming)
only require completing a course.
The course and the study are essential but you still will benefit greatly from a mentor and will suffer without one.
Mentorships:
Is really a relationship with a senior in that field.
The senior can point things out you are doing badly, an error you are making or just how you could do it better.
This feedback is the most important element of mentorships.
People who are not skilled in the field will say something is good or bad, works or doesn't but that is it, they will
not know why, an expert will.
How to deal with mentors:
Remember it is a personal relationship.
If they don't like you, it will be bad for you.
Be prepared to do things that have no obvious benefit.
	Just because something doesn't seem to have a benefit doesn't mean it doesn't.
Understand you will often have to work in exchange for knowledge.
	There must be some benefit for the mentor.









