Peter Pan Syndrome

'An elderly infant is a very ugly thing' Jordan Petersen.

I am an elderly infant.

What are the markers of Peter Pan Syndrome?

1) Not having self reliance.

2) Having a fake career.

3) Not having any or enough recognizable achievements.

Self Reliance
Question: if everyone you knew disappeared or died or just went away, would you be able to keep your life in order?
Here is a list of common things that you should be able to do for yourself without getting some one else to do for you.
  Tax returns.
  Laundry.
  Clothing repair.
    Eg. your pants get a split can you sew it back together?
  Feed yourself with proper nutrition.
  Go shopping, buy stuff and return home.
  Earn your own money.

Career
Real career or fake? It is easy too tell if you enquire.
Differences between a real career and a fake career.
  Real careers develop skill and competency, fake ones do not.
  Real careers are recognized by achievers in that field fake ones are not.
  Real careers are recognized by others fake ones are not.
  Real careers accomplish things that other people use fake ones do not.
  Real careers get real promotions fake ones get fake promotions.
With the difference between a real career and a fake one being so great how
do people not notice that they have a fake one?
Those who have a fake one pretend they have a real one.
This pretension is aided by themselves and bad people.
Aided by themselves: it is humbling to admit your career is going nowhere, as are you.
  To avoid this simply pretend it is not true.
Aided by bad people: others who want to be superior (or at least not the sucker) will tell them untruthful things.
  'You're OK' 'Don't worry'
What is the difference between a fake career and a real one that is going nowhere?
The pretend, a person with a real career that is going nowhere knows it and doesn't think otherwise.

Achievements
Achievements will be collected in successfully moving toward a goal.
Achievements differ from a dopamine hit as they are based upon what others think.
'See, I have done this.'
If you are not getting achievements these may be the problem:
  You do not have a goal.
  Your goal is bad.
    The goal itself needs to be something that is acknowledged by others as worthwhile.
    Goals that are bad:
      Goals that have no benefit to others. Eg. smoking a crate of cigarettes.
      Goals that are unachievable. Eg. constructing a perpetual motion machine.
  You are not making progress toward it or only making slow progress.
  You are not seeking a final victory.

What can be done?
Recognize people who are good for you.
  If a person is not good for you then you need to cut them out of your life.
  This means everybody.
    Parents are the most important people to cut out of your life if they are bad for you.
      Unfortunately, you may only realize this when the damage is done and it is too late to fix things.
    Spouse: a difficult one.
    Children: this is unlikely to be a problem as you will not 'look up' to your children.
      If they are not treated right they will become messed up.
Develop your own plan.
  It must be yours not something that others want.
  Example:
  becoming an engineer because you wish to find out how technology works is good.
  becoming an engineer because someone says there is money in it or its what your parents want is not good.
  
