Why do I say 'no' to 'faith'?
To have 'faith' one needs steps to believe.
To not believe it simply requires that there are no steps that lead to the theist conclusion.

The following is my argument for why I believed.

Premise		The bible is the true.
Premise		The bible is the word of God.
Premise		God declares that the bible is true.
Premise		The bible says that God is. The great "I am".
Therefore	God.

Maybe some of these premises can be rolled into another.
If this seems like circular logic that is because it is.

To unroll this circular argument, we need to establish each premise to not be dependent on any other premise.
Let us start with the premise that the bible is the word of God.
If the bible is the word of God it is either true or not.
If it is not true then God would be lying to you (and any who read it).
If God is lying then the whole race has bigger problems than belief.
If God is not lying to you then the bible being the word of God must be true.
So if we can determine whether the bible is false then we can rule out the possibility of God not lying to you,
there are still the possibilities of God lying to you or God not existing.
How can we know this?
Simply if one part of the bible is shown to be true it does not mean that another part is true.
but if one part is false it does show that the author is lying or mistaken (something that you would not expect from God) and
thus would cast doubt on to every other part.

The bible true or false?
It is sufficient to demonstrate one part false to discredit the worth of the entire document.
A perfect God would not make mistakes.
The bible makes sense if you take it as documents written by men who desire to control other men rather than a revelation from the Supreme Being.
Why would you say there were days of creation, light was created on the first day but the sun came on a later day in the book of Genesis?
Why would you write that stars fell out of the sky and landed on the earth in the book of Revelation?
Neil DeGrasse Tyson gives an answer it means you have no idea what those things are.



God without the bible.
Can God be demonstrated without a holy book being used as the solitary source of evidence?
The only ways I can think of is either personal revelation or someone else told you.
Personal Revelation
God told you that this was true.
This raises further questions.
Keeping aspects of others out of the argument for now.
Questions that you need to ask yourself.
How did God reveal his will to me?
Did God appear to me, if so what did he look like?
Did God speak into my mind, if so do you recall what he said and how it sounded?
In either case you need to ask yourself, how do you know it was God and not some evil spirit or a hallucination?
Do you listen to those voices in your head?
Can you deceive yourself into believing things?
Others testimony
If someone else told you how do you know what they told you is real?
Some people tell lies, some people are not lying but are wrong.

At some point God must give you some revelation where you need to ask questions or you are just believing what someone else has told you.

Where I fit into this story.
This is not the actual argument I followed.
The argument I followed looked more like this.

Premise		I want life to be better.
Premise		Life is bad if you don't fit in.
Premise		The only people who seem to accept me are christians.
Premise		Christians respect people who declare their faith, do not get caught doing very bad things and confess all small things.
Therefore	I say that I believe, virtue signal by saying what is needed is Jesus, prayer and to study the bible.
In doing that I drank the Kool-aid.
In corrupting the way you think you don't even realise it.

I was 'evangelising' also called 'witnessing' this means just trying to convince another that it is true.
I was in my twenties trying to convince a fellow student.
When he asked me "how do you know?".
I made noises and muttered something about conscience.
To which he said "I've got a conscience too".
At this point we both realised that I didn't have a good answer.
We let that conversation thread drop and I never tried to talk anyone into religion again.
I didn't learn there and then what it meant but instead put the embarrassment out of my mind.



Premise		I can deceive myself.





