Why

Parents are bad.
I believed false things.
I cannot make the situation better.
No-one around me is even trying to make the situation better.

Others are full of contempt for me both now and ever in my memory of the past.
Wah, wah, this may sound that it reeks of self pity but facts remain.
There was no articulation (speaking) of the truth just hypocritical politeness.
No one, in my personal experience, not historical individuals like Gandhi, Socrates, Jesus or Martin Luther King Jr.,
and not current people who are distant from me like Tony Robbins, Jordan Petersen, John Sonmez, Mark Manson, etc.
has shown any dedication or courage to declare the truth as they see it.
Many are no doubt cowardly (I was like this) and just defer to confident people for fear of being socially humiliated.
Not saying things because you may be wrong is not good.
If you are wrong how are you going to fix your errors if you never listen to others? and how will others respond to you if you never speak?
The main reason for hypocritical politeness is social superiority.
You get to laugh at someone who has dumb ideas while avoiding any possible entanglement or responsibility.

The real question of self improvement is why bother?
This is a simple question to answer but difficult to do.
The answer: If you don't your life will fall apart and you will experience pain.
Every aspect of your life needs to be cultivated, refined or developed.
Career, finance, relationships.
It is a matter of finding what is bad and fixing it, what is not perfect and improving it.
Live in this state constantly.
What you don't know may kill you.
Giving in to the 'I can't be bothered' frame of mind is easy but not so easy if you have a goal to move toward and a
penalty to run from.
Giving in is very easy if you believe bad people who say either your goal is not worth pursuing or there is no real penalty for doing nothing.
It is probably more common that the people being bad are not being cowardly rather they are trying to make themselves superior
to you by sabotaging you.

In former times people spoke to me crap and gave me fake smiles.
Now, I can see clearer what they were on about.
They recognize this and are more precise even though the emphasis is upon my thinking.
The joke is no longer funny.
The smiles have been replaced with open contempt.

The problem is that I have not thought things thru and have been kept unable to think things thru.
You cannot think of things that have never occurred to you or have never been put to you to think about.
If you allow others to take away your motivation you will be left incurious and not find things out.
The aspect of cult followers or citizens of dictatorship is that they don't know better.
